Arunachal Pradesh Legislature Members (Prevention of Disqualifications) Act, 1977_Section Preamble--> State(s): Arunachal Pradesh An Act to provide for the prevention of certain disqualifications for being chosen as, and for being, a member of the Arunachal Pradesh Legislative Assembly. WHEREAS it is expedient to provide in accordance with the provisions of section 14(i) (a) of the Government of Union Territories Act, 1963 (20 of 1963) that the holders of the offices hereinafter mentioned shall not be disqualified for being chosen as, and for being, a member of the Arunachal Pradesh Legislative Assembly.
Arunachal Pradesh Legislature Members (Prevention of Disqualifications) Act, 1977_Section 1--> State(s): Arunachal Pradesh (i) This Act may be called the Arunachal Pradesh Legislature Members (Prevention of Disqualifications) Act, 1977. (ii) It extends to the whole of Arunachal Pradesh. (iii) It shall come into force at once.
Arunachal Pradesh Legislature Members (Prevention of Disqualifications) Act, 1977_Section 2--> State(s): Arunachal Pradesh A person shall not be disqualified for being chosen as, or for being, a member of the Arunachal Pradesh Legislative Assembly by reason of the fact that he holds any of the offices being offices of profit specified in the Schedule appended hereto.
Arunachal Pradesh Legislature Members (Prevention of Disqualifications) Act, 1977_Section Sch.1--> State(s): Arunachal Pradesh (See section 2) 1. Goanbura, whether called by this or any other title. 2. Any office held in the Territorial Army or National Cadet Corps or Auxiliary Air force or Air Defence Reserve. 3. The office of Chairman, Vice-Chairman or members of any committee, society, board or authority appointed by the Government of India or the Government of any State or Union territory specified in the first Schedule to the Constitution of India. Explanation 1.- "Committee" means any Committee, Commission, Council or any other body of one or more persons, whether statutory or not, set up by the Government of India or the Government of any State. Explanation 2.-"Board" or "authority" means any corporation, company, society or any other body of one or more persons whether incorporated or not, established, registered or formed by or under any Central law or law of any State for the time being in force or exercising powers and functions under any such law. 4. Any office under the Government, which is not a whole-time office remunerated either by salary or fees. 5. The office of part-time Professor, Lecturer, Instructor or Teacher in Government educational institutions. 6. Medical practitioner rendering part-time service to Government. 7. Any office in the Home guard which is not whole-time and is not remunerated by salary or fees. 8. The office of Village Volunteer, in the SSB Organisation. 9. Any office held by a Minister or State or Deputy Minister for the Union or any State specified in the First Schedule to the Constitution of India. 
