Gujarat State Tax on Professions, Trades, Callings and Employments Act, 1976_Section Preamble--> State(s): Gujarat An Act to provide for the levy and collection of a tax on professions, trades, callings and employments for the benefit of the State. In exercise of the powers conferred by section 3 of the Gujarat State Legislature (Delegation of Powers) Act, 1976, (44 of 1976), the President is pleased to enact as follows:-
Gujarat State Tax on Professions, Trades, Callings and Employments Act, 1976_Section 1--> State(s): Gujarat (1) This Act may be called the Gujarat State Tax on Professions, Trades, Callings and Employments Act, 1976. (2) It extends to the whole of the State of Gujarat. (3) It shall come into force on the 1st day of April, 1976.
Gujarat State Tax on Professions, Trades, Callings and Employments Act, 1976_Section 2--> State(s): Gujarat In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires,- (a) "Commissioner" means the Commissioner of Profession Tax appointed under section 12, and includes an Additional Commissioner of Profession Tax (if any) appointed under that section : (b) "employer", in relation to an employee earning any salary or wages on a regular basis under him, means the person or the officer who is responsible for disbursement of such salary or wages and includes the head of the office or any establishment as well as the manager or agent of the employer; (c) "month" means a month reckoned according to the British calendar; (d) "person" means any person who is engaged in any Profession, Trade, Calling or Employment in the State of Gujarat and includes a Hindu undivided family, firm, company, corporation or other corporate body, any society, club or association so engaged, but does not include any person who earns wages on a casual basis; (e) "prescribed" means prescribed by rules made under this Act; (f) "profession tax" or "tax" means the tax on profession, trades, callings and employments levied under this act: (g) "salary" or "wage" includes pay or wages, dearness allowance and all other remunerations received by any person on regular basis whether payable in cash or kind, and also includes perquisites, and profits in lieu of salary, as defined in section 17 of the Income-tax Act, 1961, (43 of 1961) but does not include any form of bonus or gratuity; (h) "Schedule" means a Schedule appended to this Act; (i) "Tribunal" means the Gujarat Sales Tax Tribunal constituted under section 28 of the Gujarat Sales Tax Act, 1969 (Guj.1 of 1970.), and discharging the functions of the Tribunal assigned to it by or under this Act; (j) "Year" means the financial year.
Gujarat State Tax on Professions, Trades, Callings and Employments Act, 1976_Section 3--> State(s): Gujarat (1) Subject to the provisions of article 276 of the Constitution and of this Act, there shall be levied and collected a tax on Professions, Trades, Callings and Employments for the benefit of the State. (2) Every person engaged in any Profession, Trade, Calling or Employment and failing under one or the other of the classes mentioned in column2 of Schedule I shall be liable to pay to the State Government the tax at the rate mentioned against the class of such person in column 3 of the said Schedule : Provided that the tax so payable in respect of any one person shall not exceed two thousand and five hundred rupees in any year: Provided further that the State Government may, from time to time, by notification in the Official Gazette, specify the class of persons other than those mentioned in entries 1 to 9 in Schedule I to whom entry 10 in that Schedule shall apply and the rate (not exceeding two thousand rupees every year) at which the tax shall be payable by the class of persons so specified. (3) Where a person falls under more than one entry in Schedule I, he shall be liable to pay to the State Government the tax under such one of these entries where the rate of tax specified is the highest. (4) A person falling under any of the entries2 to 10 in Schedule I shall be liable to pay the tax for the year irrespective of whether he is engaged in the Profession, Trade, Calling or Employment during the whole of such year or any part thereof.
Gujarat State Tax on Professions, Trades, Callings and Employments Act, 1976_Section 4--> State(s): Gujarat The tax payable under this Act by any person earning a salary or wage, shall be deducted by his employer from the salary or wage payable to such person, before such salary or wage is paid to him, and such employer shall, irrespective of whether such deduction has been made or not, when the salary or wage is paid to such person, be liable to pay tax on behalf of all such persons : Provided that, if the employer is an officer of Government, the State Government may, notwithstanding anything contained in this Act prescribe by rules the manner in which such employer shall discharge the said liability: Provided further that where any person earning a salary or wage, who is covered by entry1 of Schedule I- (a) is also covered by one or more other entries in Schedule I and the rate of tax specified under such other entry, or if he is covered by more than one other entry, the highest of the rates of tax specified under those entries, is more than the rate of tax specified under entry1 in that Schedule by which he is covered; or (b) is simultaneously engaged in employments of more than one employer, and such person furnishes to his employer or employers a declaration in the prescribed form to the effect that he has obtained a certificate of enrolment under subsection (2) of section5 and that he shall pay the tax himself, no deduction or payment of tax shall be made by the employer or employers under his section and such employer or employers, as the case may be, shall not be liable to pay the tax on behalf of such person.
Gujarat State Tax on Professions, Trades, Callings and Employments Act, 1976_Section 5--> State(s): 							Gujarat (1) Every employer not being an officer of Government liable to pay tax under section4 shall obtain a certificate of registration from the prescribed authority in the prescribed manner. (2) Every person liable to pay tax under this Act (other than a person earning salary or wages, in respect of whom the tax is payable by his employer), shall obtain a certificate of enrolment from the prescribed authority in the prescribed manner. (3) The prescribed authority shall mention in every certificate of enrolment the amount of tax payable by the holder according to Schedule I, and the date by which it shall be paid, and such certificate shall serve as a notice of demand for purposes of section 10. (4) Every employer or person required to obtain a certificate of registration or enrolment shall within such period as may be prescribed, or, if he was not engaged in any Profession, Trade, Calling or Employment on the date of the commencement of this Act, within such period from the date of commencement of his Profession, Trade, Calling or Employment, or, as the case may, within such period from the date of his becoming liable to pay tax as may be prescribed, or, in respect of a person referred to in sub-section (2), within such period from the date of his becoming liable to pay tax at a rate higher or lower than the one mentioned in his certificate of enrolment as may be "prescribed, apply for a certificate of registration or enrolment, or a revised certificate or enrolment, as the case may be, to the prescribed authority in the prescribed form, and the prescribed authority shall after making such inquiry as may be necessary within thirty days of the receipt of the application (which period in the first year from the commencement of this Act shall be extended to ninety days), if the application is in order, grant him such certificate. (5) Where an employer or a person liable to registration or enrolment has without reasonable cause failed to apply for such certificate within the required time, the prescribed authority may, after giving him a reasonable opportunity of being heard, impose a penalty not exceeding twenty rupees for each day of delay in case of an employer and not exceeding five rupees for each day of delay in case of others. (6) Where an employer or a person liable to registration or enrolment has deliberately given false information in any application submitted under this section, the prescribed authority may, after giving him a reasonable opportunity of being heard impose a penalty not exceeding one thousand rupees.
Gujarat State Tax on Professions, Trades, Callings and Employments Act, 1976_Section 6--> State(s): Gujarat (1) Every employer registered under this Act shall furnish to the prescribed authority a return in such form, for such periods and by such dates as may be prescribed, showing therein the salaries and wages paid by him and the amount of tax deducted by him in respect thereof: Provided that the Commissioner may, subject to such terms and conditions as may be prescribed, exempt any such employer from furnishing such return or permit any such employer, - (i) to furnish them for such different periods, or (ii) to furnish a consolidated return relating to all or any of the places of work of the employer in the State where such employer carries on his employment, for the said period or for such different periods, as he may direct to the prescribed authority . (2) Every such return shall be accompanied by a treasury challan or any other document as may be prescribed in proof of payment of full amount of tax due according to the return, and a return without such proof of payment shall nit be deemed to have been duly filed. (3) Where an employer has without reasonable cause failed to file such return within the required time, the prescribed authority may, after giving him a reasonable opportunity of being heard, impose upon him a penalty not exceeding five rupees for each day of delay.
Gujarat State Tax on Professions, Trades, Callings and Employments Act, 1976_Section 7--> State(s): Gujarat (1) If the prescribed authority is satisfied that the return filed by any employer is correct and complete, he shall accept the return. (2) (a)If the prescribe authority is not satisfied that the return filed is correct and complete he shall serve upon the employer a notice requiring him to attend in person or through an authorised representative, and to produce accounts and papers in support of the return, on a date specified in the notice (b)The prescribed authority shall on examination of, accounts and papers, assess the amount of tax payable by the employer. (c) If the employer fails to comply with the terms of the notice, or if in the opinion of the prescribed authority the accounts and papers are incorrect or incomplete or unreliable, the said authority shall, after such inquiry as he deems fir or otherwise assess the tax due, to the best of his judgment. (3) If an employer has without reasonable cause failed to get himself registered or being registered has failed to file any return, the prescribed authority shall, after giving the employer a reasonable opportunity of being heard and after holding such inquiry as he deems fit, or otherwise pass an order assessing the amount of tax due, to the best of his judgment. (4) The amount of tax so assessed shall be paid within fifteen days of receipt of the notice of demand from the prescribed authority.
Gujarat State Tax on Professions, Trades, Callings and Employments Act, 1976_Section 7A--> State(s): Gujarat (1) If a person liable to obtain a certificate of enrolment under sub-section (2) of section5 has failed to get himself enrolled or, being enrolled, has failed to make payment of the whole or any part of the amount of tax as required by or under this Act, the prescribed authority shall, after giving such persona reasonable opportunity of being heard, and after holding such enquiry as he deems fit, or otherwise, determine the amount of tax due from him, and if such amount cannot be determined properly on the basis of the available material determine the same to the best of his judgment. (2) The amount of tax due as so determined shall be- paid in within fifteen days of receipt of the notice of demand from the prescribed authority.
Gujarat State Tax on Professions, Trades, Callings and Employments Act, 1976_Section 8--> State(s): Gujarat (1) The tax payable under this Act shall be paid in the prescribed manner. (2) The amount of tax due from enrolled persons for each year as specified in their enrolment certificates shall be paid- (a) in the case of a person who stands enrolled before the commencement of a year or is enrolled on or before the 31st day of August of a year, before the 30th day of September of that year, and (b) in the case of a person who is enrolled after the 31st day of August of a year, within one month of the date of enrolment: Provided that the tax payable under clause (a) may, for the year ending on the 31st March. 1990, be paid on or before the 30th day of November, 1989.
Gujarat State Tax on Professions, Trades, Callings and Employments Act, 1976_Section 9--> State(s): Gujarat (1) If an employer (not being an officer of Government) does not deduct the tax at the time of payment of salary or wage, or after deducting fails to pay the tax as required by or under this Act, he shall without prejudice to any other consequences and liabilities which he may incur, be liable to pay in addition to the amount of tax, simple interest at two per cent of the amount of the tax due for each month or part thereof for the period for which the tax remains unpaid. (2) If an enrolled person fails to pay the tax as required by or under this Act, he shall be liable to pay in addition to the amount of tax, simple interest at the rate and in the manner laid down in sub-section (1).
Gujarat State Tax on Professions, Trades, Callings and Employments Act, 1976_Section 10--> State(s): Gujarat If an enrolled person or a registered employer fails, without reasonable cause, to make payment of any amount of tax within the required time or date as specified in the notice of demand, the prescribed authority may, after giving him a reasonable opportunity of being heard, impose upon him a penalty not exceeding fifty percent of the amount of tax due.
Gujarat State Tax on Professions, Trades, Callings and Employments Act, 1976_Section 11--> State(s): Gujarat (1) All arrears of any tax, penalty, interest or fees due under this Act from any person shall be recoverable as arrears of land revenue. (2) For the purpose of effecting recovery of the amount of tax, penalty, interest or fees due from any person by or under the provisions of this Act, as arrears of land revenue,- (i) the Commissioner of Profession Tax, the Additional Commissioner of Profession Tax and the Deputy Commissioners of Profession Tax shall have and exercise all the powers and perform all the duties of the Collector under the Bombay Land Revenue Code, 1879; (Bombay v of 1879.) (ii) the Deputy Commissioners of Profession Tax shall have and exercise all the powers (except the powers of arrest and confinement of a defaulter in civil jail) and perform all the duties of the Assistant or Deputy Collector under the said Code; (iii) The Assistant Commissioners of Profession Tax Officers and the Profession Tax Officers shall have and exercise all the powers (except the powers of arrest and confinement of a defaulter in a civil jail) and perform all the duties of the Mamlatdar under the said Code; (iv) the Profession Tax Inspectors shall have and exercise all the powers of The Assistant Commissioners of Profession Tax Officers and the Profession Tax Officers in clause (iii) of this sub-section (except the powers of confirmation of sale). (3) Every order passed in exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (2) shall, for the purpose of sections 13, 14, 15 and 25 be deemed to be an order passed under this Act.
Gujarat State Tax on Professions, Trades, Callings and Employments Act, 1976_Section 11A--> State(s): Gujarat Deleted by Guj. 12 of 1990, s.2.
Gujarat State Tax on Professions, Trades, Callings and Employments Act, 1976_Section 12--> State(s): Gujarat (1) (a) For carrying out the purposes of this Act, the State Government may appoint - (i) an officer to be the Commissioner of Profession Tax for the whole of the State of Gujarat. (i) one or more officers to be the Additional Commissioners of Profession Tax as the State Government thinks necessary; (i) such number of Joint Commissioners of Profession Tax, Deputy Commissioners of Profession Tax and Profession Tax Officers and other officers and persons (with such designations) as the State Government thinks necessary. (b) An officer appointed under paragraph (ii) or (iii) of clause (a) shall within the limits of such area as the State Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette specify, to be within his jurisdiction, exercise such powers and perform such duties as may be conferred or imposed upon him by or under this Act. (c) The superintendence and control for the proper execution of the provisions of this Act and the rules made thereunder relating to the levy and collection of the tax shall vest in the Commissioner. (2) The Tribunal constituted under section 28 of the Gujarat Sales Tax Act, 1969, (Guj. 1 of 1970) shall be the Tribunal for the purposes of hearing appeals and revision applications and discharging other functions of the Tribunal under this Act, and accordingly the provisions of that Act relating the Tribunal including section 28, and the regulations (subject to such amendments as may be made therein in their application to the Tribunal for the purposes of this Act) made thereunder shall apply to or in relation to such Tribunal for the purposes of this Act : Provided that the Tribunal may with previous sanction of the State Government, make separate regulations for the purpose of regulating its procedure and disposal of its business, under this Act and the regulations so made shall be published in the Official Gazette. (3) For carrying out the purposes of this Act, the State Government may. at its discretion, appoint any Government Department or officer, or a Municipal Corporation, Municipality or District Panchayat (hereinafter called "the Collecting Agent") as its agent responsible for the levy and collection of the tax under this Act from such persons or class of persons as may be prescribed; and thereupon, it shall be the duty of such Collecting Agent to carry out in such manner as may be prescribed, such functions under this Act as may be prescribed, and to render to the Commissioner in such manner and at such time as that officer may require full and complete account of the tax levied and collected (4) Any officer authorised by the Collecting Agent in this behalf shall have for the purposes of levy and collection of the tax all the powers of the prescribed authority and such other powers as may be prescribed. (5) A Municipal Corporation, Municipality or District Panchayat appointed as agent to carry out the purposes of this Act under sub-section (3) shall be paid such collection charges as may be determined by the State Government, after consultation with the local authority concerned. (6) It shall be lawful for the Commissioner, or an officer duly authorised by him, to have access to, and to cause production and examination of books, registers, accounts or documents maintained or required to be maintained by the Collecting Agent for the purpose of this Act, and the Collecting Agent shall, whenever called upon to do so, produce such books, registers, accounts or documents for inspection by the Commissioner or by the authorised officer.
Gujarat State Tax on Professions, Trades, Callings and Employments Act, 1976_Section 13--> State(s): Gujarat (1) Subject to such rules as may be made by the State Government any person or employer aggrieved by any order made under section 5, 6, 7, 9, 10, 15 or 16 may appeal against such order to,- (a) the Deputy Commissioner, if the order is passed by any prescribed authority or officer subordinate to him; (b) the Joint Commissioner, if the order is passed by the Assistant Commissioner; and (c) the Tribunal, if the order is passed by any officer not below the rank of Joint Commissioner. (2) No appeal shall be entertained after the expiry of sixty days from the date of receipt of demand notice or receipt of the order : Provided that, the appellate authority may admit the appeal after the expiry of the aforesaid period, if it is satisfied that there was sufficient cause for the delay. (3) No appeal shall be entertained, unless the amount of tax or penalty or interest in respect of which the appeal has been preferred has been paid in full : Provided that in any particular case the appellate authority may dispense with the requirement of such payment if it is of opinion that such requirement will cause undue hardship to the appellant. (4) The appellate authority in disposing of an appeal, may - (i) confirm, annual, reduce, enhance, or otherwise modify the assessment or penalty or interest, or (i) set aside the assessment or penalty or interest and direct the authority which the assessment or imposed the penalty or charged the interest to pass a fresh order after further inquiry on specified points. (5) No order under this section shall be passed without giving the appellant or his representative, and where the appellate authority is the Tribunal, with out giving the authority whose order or direction is the subject of the appeal or his representative, a reasonable opportunity of being heard.
Gujarat State Tax on Professions, Trades, Callings and Employments Act, 1976_Section 14--> State(s): Gujarat (1) Any order passed in appeal under section 13 may, on an application being made in This behalf, be revised by - (a) the Joint Commissioner, if the order is passed by the Deputy Commissioner; (b) the Tribunal, if the order is passed by the Deputy Commissioner. (2) The Commissioner may, of his own motion, revise any order passed by any authority other than the Tribunal under this Act. (3) Any order passed by the Joint Commissioner under sub-section (1) or by the Commissioner under sub-section (2) may be revised by the Tribunal. (4) No revision shall be entertained under sub-section (1) or sub-section (3) after the expiry of sixty days from the date of the receipt of the order : Provided that, no order shall be revised by the Commissioner under this subsection after the expiry of three years from the passing of that order. (5) No order under this section shall be passed without giving the applicant or the assessee a reasonable opportunity of being heard.
Gujarat State Tax on Professions, Trades, Callings and Employments Act, 1976_Section 15--> State(s): Gujarat (1) Any authority under this Act may, of his own motion or on an application being made in this behalf, rectify any mistake apparent on the face of the record. (2) Any authority under this Act may review its own order if any employer has been under-assessed for any period : Provided that no order adversely affecting an employer or a person, shall be passed under this section unless a reasonable opportunity of being 36heard has been given to such employer or person : Provided further that, no order shall be reviewed after the expiry of three years from the date on which it is passed.
Gujarat State Tax on Professions, Trades, Callings and Employments Act, 1976_Section 16--> State(s): Gujarat (1) If the Commissioner is satisfied that the books of accounts and other documents maintained by an employer in the normal course of his business are not adequate for verification of the returns filed by the employer under this Act, it shall be lawful for the Commissioner to direct the employer under this Act, it shall be lawful for the Commissioner to direct the employer to maintain the books of accounts or other documents in such manner as he may in writing direct, and thereupon the employer shall maintain such books of accounts or other documents accordingly. (2) Where an employer wilfully fails to maintain the books of accounts or other documents as directed under sub-section (1), the Commissioner may, after giving him a reasonable opportunity of being heard, impose a penalty not exceeding five rupees for each day of delay.
Gujarat State Tax on Professions, Trades, Callings and Employments Act, 1976_Section 17--> State(s): Gujarat (1) Notwithstanding anything contained in any law for the time being in force or contract to the contrary, the Commissioner may, at any time, by notice in writing, a copy of which shall be forwarded to the assessee at his last ad dress known to the Commissioner, require - (a) any person from whom any amount of money is due, or may become due, to an assessee on whom a notice of demand has been served under this Act, or (b) any person who holds or may subsequently hold money for or on account of such assessee, to pay to the Commissioner, either forthwith upon the money becoming due or being held or at or within the time specified in the notice (but not before the money becomes due or us held as aforesaid), so much of the money as is sufficient to pay the amount due by the assessee in respect of the arrears of tax, penalty and interest under this Act, or the whole of the money when it is equal to or less than that amount. Explanation- For the purpose of this section the amount of money due to an assessee from, or money held for or an account of an assessee by, any person, shall be calculated after deducting therefrom such claims (if any) law fully subsisting, as may have fallen due for payment by such assessee to such person. (2) The Commissioner may, at any time, amend or revoke any such notice, or extend the time for making any payment in pursuance of the notice. (3) Any person making any payment in compliance with a notice under this section shall be deemed to have made the payment under the authority of the assessee, and the receipt of the Commissioner shall constitute a good and sufficient discharge of the liability of such person, to the extent of the amount referred to in the receipt. (4) Any person discharging any liability to the assessee after receipt of the notice referred to in this section, shall be personally liable to the Com missioner to the extent of the liability discharged, or the extent of the liability of the assessee for tax, penalty and interest, whichever is less. (5) Where a person to whom a notice under this section is sent proves to the satisfaction of the Commissioner that the sum demanded or any part thereof is not due to the assessee or that he does not hold any money for or on account of the assessee, than nothing contained in this section shall be deemed to require such person to pay any such sum or part thereof, as the case may be, to the Commissioner. (6) Any amount of money which a person is required to pay to the Commissioner or for which he is personally liable to the Commissioner under this section, shall if it remains unpaid be recoverable as an arrear of land revenue.
Gujarat State Tax on Professions, Trades, Callings and Employments Act, 1976_Section 18--> State(s): Gujarat Any authority under this Act may inspect and search any premises, where any Profession, Trade, Calling or Employment liable to taxation under this Act is carried on or is suspected to be carried on and may cause production and examination of books, registers, accounts or documents relating thereto and may seize such books, registers, accounts or documents as may be necessary : Provided that if the said authority removes from the said premises any book, register, account or document, he shall give to the person in charge of the place, a receipt describing the book, register, account or document so removed by him and retain the same only for so long as may be necessary for the purposes of examination thereof or for a prosecution.
Gujarat State Tax on Professions, Trades, Callings and Employments Act, 1976_Section 19--> State(s): Gujarat The prescribed authority shall refund to a person the amount of tax, penalty, interest or fee (if any), paid by such person in excess of the amount due from him under this Act. The refund may be made either by cash payment or, at the option of the person entitled to such refund, by deduction of such excess from the amount of tax, penalty, interest or fee due from him :
Gujarat State Tax on Professions, Trades, Callings and Employments Act, 1976_Section 19A--> State(s): Gujarat (1) Subject to such conditions as it may impose the State Government may, if it is necessary so to do in the public interest or to grant concession in case of double taxation or to redress an inequitable situation, remit by an order either generally or specially, the whole or any part of the tax payable in respect of any period by any person or any class of persons. (2) the Commissioner may, in such circumstances and subject to such conditions and limits as may be prescribed, remit the whole or any part of the tax payable in respect of any period by any person or any class of persons.
Gujarat State Tax on Professions, Trades, Callings and Employments Act, 1976_Section 20--> State(s): Gujarat Any person or employer who, without sufficient cause, fails to comply with any of the provisions of this Act or the rules framed thereunder shall, on conviction, be punished with fine not exceeding five thousand rupees and when the offence is continuing one, with fine not fifty rupees per day during the period of the continuance of the offence.
Gujarat State Tax on Professions, Trades, Callings and Employments Act, 1976_Section 21--> State(s): Gujarat (1) Where an offence under this Act has been committed by a company, every person who at the time the offence was committed in charge of, and was responsible to, the company for the conduct of the business of the company, as well as the company shall be deemed to be guilty of the offence and shall be liable to be proceeded against and punished accordingly : Provided that, nothing contained in this sub-section shall render any such person liable to any punishment, if he proves that the offence was committed without his knowledge or that he had exercise all due diligence to prevent the commission of such offence. (2) Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section (1), where any offence under this Act has been committed by a company and it is proved that the offence has been committed with the consent or connivance of, or is attributable to any neglect on the part of, any director, manager, secretary or other officer of the company, such director, manager, secretary or other officer shall be deemed to be guilty of that offence and shall be liable to be proceeded against and punished accordingly. Explanation:-For the purposes of this section - (a) "company" means any body corporate and includes a firm or other association of individuals; and (b) "director", in relations to a firm means a partner in the firm.
Gujarat State Tax on Professions, Trades, Callings and Employments Act, 1976_Section 22--> State(s): Gujarat The Commissioner may, after giving the parties a reasonable opportunity of being heard, wherever it is possible to do so, and after recording his reasons for doing so, by order in writing, transfer any proceedings or class of proceedings under any provision of this Act, from himself to any other officer, and he may likewise transfer any such proceedings (including a proceeding pending with any officer or already transferred under this section) from any officer to any other officer or to himself : Provided that nothing in this section shall be deemed to require any such opportunity to be given where the transfer is from any officer to any other officer and offices of both are situated in the same city, locality or place. Explanation:-In this section, the word "proceedings", in relation to any assessee whose name is specified in any order issued thereunder, means all proceedings under this Act in respect of any year, which may be pending on the date of such order or which may have been completed on or before such date, and includes also all proceedings under this Act which may be commenced after the date of such order in respect of any year in relation to such assessee.
Gujarat State Tax on Professions, Trades, Callings and Employments Act, 1976_Section 23--> State(s): Gujarat (1) Subject to such conditions as may be prescribed, the Commissioner may, either before or after the institution of proceedings for an offence under this Act, permit any person charged with the offence to compound the offence on payment of such sum, not exceeding double the amount of tax to which the offence relates, as the Commissioner may determine. (2) On payment of such sum, as may be determined by the commissioner under sub-section (1), no further proceeding shall be taken against the person in respect of the same offence.
Gujarat State Tax on Professions, Trades, Callings and Employments Act, 1976_Section 24--> State(s): Gujarat All authorities under this Act shall, for the purposes of this Act, have the same powers as are vested in a court under the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908,v of 1908 while trying a suit, in respect of enforcing the attendance of and examining, any person on oath or affirmation or for compelling the production of any document.
Gujarat State Tax on Professions, Trades, Callings and Employments Act, 1976_Section 25--> State(s): Gujarat (1) No suit shall lie in any civil court to set aside or modify any assessment made or order passed under this Act. (2) No suit, prosecution, or other legal proceedings shall lie against any authority under this Act or against any employer for anything done or in tended to be done in good faith under this Act or the rules made thereunder.
Gujarat State Tax on Professions, Trades, Callings and Employments Act, 1976_Section 26--> State(s): Gujarat (1) The State Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, delegate to the commissioner, - (a) its powers of appointment of officers (not being powers relating to the appointment of Joint Commissioners of Profession Tax) and per sons, under paragraph (iii) of clause (a) of sub-section (1) of section 12, and (b) its powers of specifying areas under clause (b) of sub-section (1) of section 12 in respect of officers appointed by the commissioner under the powers delegated to him under clause (a); and the Commissioner shall exercise the powers delegated to him under this subsection subject to such conditions and restrictions as may be specified in the notification. (2) The Commissioner may, subject to such conditions and restrictions as the State Government may by general or special order impose, by order in writing delegate to any of the authorities subordinate to him, either generally or as respects any particular matter or class of matters any of his powers under this Act.
Gujarat State Tax on Professions, Trades, Callings and Employments Act, 1976_Section 26A--> State(s): Gujarat (1) Subject to such conditions as it may impose, the State Government may, if it considers it necessary so to do in the public interest by notification in the Official Gazette, exempt any class of person from payment of the whole or any part of the tax payable under the provisions of this Act. (2) Every notification issued under sub-section (1) shall be laid for not less than thirty days before the State Legislature as soon as may be after it is issued and shall be subject to rescission by the State Legislature or to such modifications as the State Legislature may make during the session in which it is so laid or the session immediately following. (3) Any recession or modification so made by the State Legislature shall be published in Official Gazette and shall thereupon take effect.
Gujarat State Tax on Professions, Trades, Callings and Employments Act, 1976_Section 27--> State(s): Gujarat (1) The State Government may, be notification in the Official Gazette, make rules for carrying out the purposes of this Act. (2) In particular, and without prejudice to the generally of the foregoing power, such rules may provide for all or any of the following matters namely:- (a) the manner in which an employer referred to 43 in the first proviso to section 4 shall discharge the liability under that sub-section and the form in which a person shall furnish a declaration to his employer or employers under the second proviso to the said-section (1): (b) the authority from which and the manner in which a certificate of registration and a certificate of enrolment shall be obtained under subsection (1) and (2) of section 5; and the authority to which arid the form in which and the period within which an application for a certificate of registration or enrolment or a revised certificate of enrolment shall be made under sub-section (3) of section 5; (c) the authority to be specified for the purposes of sub-sections (4), (5) and (6) of section 5, sub-section (3) of section 6, section 7, 10 and 19; (d) the authority to which, the form in which, the periods for which, and the dates by which, a registered employer shall furnish a return under sub-section (1) of section 6; (dd) the terms and conditions subject to which the Commissioner may exempt an employer from furnishing return or permit, under the proviso to sub-section (1) of section 6; (e) the manner in which the tax shall be paid under sub-section (1) of section 8; (f) persons or class of persons from whom the Collecting Agent shall be responsible for the levy and collection of tax and the manner in which and the functions which the collecting Agent shall carry out, under sub-section (3) of section 12; and the other powers which an officer authorised by the Collecting Agent shall have for the purposes of levy and collection of tax under sub-section (4) of section 12; (g) rules subject to which an appeal be made under section 13; (h) the conditions subject to which the Commissioner may permit any per son charged with an offence to compound the offence, under subsection (1) of section 23; (i) the fees payable in respect of any application to be made, forms to be supplied, certificates to be granted and appeals and applications for revision to be made under this Act; (j) any other matter which is or may be prescribed under this Act. (3) The rules made under this section shall be subject to the condition of previous publication. Provided that if the State Government is satisfied that circum stances exist which render it necessary to take immediate action, it may dispense with the previous publication of any rules to be made under this Act. (4) All rules made under this section shall be laid for not less than thirty days before the State Legislature as soon as may be after they are made and shall be subject to recission by the State Legislature or to such modification as the State Legislature may make during the session in which they are so laid or the session immediately following. (5) Any recission or modification so made by the State Legislature shall be published in the Official Gazette and shall thereupon take effect.
Gujarat State Tax on Professions, Trades, Callings and Employments Act, 1976_Section 28--> State(s): Gujarat (1) The enactments specified in column2 of Schedule II are hereby amended in the manner and to the extent specified in column3 thereof : Provided that nothing in the said amendment shall affect or be deemed to affect- (i) any right, obligation or liability acquired, accrued or incurred for anything done or suffered, in respect of any period preceding the date of coming into force of these amendments; (ii) any legal proceeding or remedy whether initiated or availed of before or after date of coming into force of these amendments, in respect of any such right, obligation or liability. (2) The levy, assessment or recovery of any tax or the imposition or recovery of any penalty, in respect of such period, under the provisions of the enactments referred to in sub-section (1) and all proceedings under them, in respect of all matters aforesaid, shall be initiated and disposed of, or continued and disposed of, as the case may be, as if this Act had not been enacted.
Gujarat State Tax on Professions, Trades, Callings and Employments Act, 1976_Section 29--> State(s): Gujarat Out of the proceeds of the tax and penalties and interest and fees recovered under this Act, there shall, under appropriation duly made by law, be paid annually to such local authorities as were levying a tax on Professions, Trades, Callings and Employments, immediately before the commencement of this Act, and whose power to levy such tax has been withdrawn under the provisions of this Act, such amounts on the basis of the highest collections made by them in any year during the period of three years immediately preceding the commencement of this Act, as may be determined by the State Government in this behalf.
Gujarat State Tax on Professions, Trades, Callings and Employments Act, 1976_Section Sch.1--> State(s): Gujarat [operative from 1-4-97] [See section 3 and section 5(3)] Rates of Tax on Professions, Trades, Callings and Employments. Sr. No. Class of persons Rate of tax 1 2 3 1. Salary and wage earners, whose monthly salaries or wages are (i) less than Rs. 3,000 Nil (ii) Rs. 3,000 or more but less than Rs. 6,000 Rs. 20 per month, (iii) Rs. 6,000 or more but less than Rs. 9,000 Rs. 40 per month. (iv) Rs. 9,000 or more but less than Rs. 12,000 Rs. 60 per month. (v) Rs.12,000 or more Rs. 80 per month. Explanation I Where any salary or wages are payable according to any period other than a month, the monthly salary or wages shall, for the purpose of this entry, be reckoned on the basis of the actual amount of salary or wages paid or payable for a month. Explanation II Where a person ceases to be a salary or wage earner before the end of any month, his liability to pay the tax for that month shall be proportionately reduced. 2. (1) (a) Legal practitioners including solicitors and notaries public. (b) Medical practitioners including medical consultants and dentist. (c) Technical and professional consultants, including Architects, Engineers, RCC Consultants, Tax Consultants, Chartered Accountants, Actuaries and Management Consultants. (d) Chief Agents, Principal Agents, Special Agents, Insurance Agents and Surveyors or Loss Assessors, registered or licenced under the Insurance Act, 1938. (4 of 1938) (e) [...] (f) All contractors other than building contractors. (g) Commission agents, Dalals and brokers other than estate brokers- (A) where the person is not liable to income tax and whose standing in the profession or calling mentioned above is - (i) upto five year Nil (ii) more than five years but not more than ten years Rs. 150 every year (iii) more than ten years. Rs. 500 every year. (h) Automobile Brokers. (i) Tour Operators & ; Travel Agents. (j) Cable T.V. Operators. (k) Film Distributors. (l) Owners Of Advertisement Agencies. (m) Owners of Tuition Classes or Tutorial Institutions. (n) Owners of institution of service Providers employ in Computer education training, or Online Information data base Service Through Computer network. (o) Owners of Driving School. (p) Owners of Marriage halls and Party halls. (q) Angadia 'or' Courier Service Providers. (r) Owners of Health Club & ; Recreation clubs. (B) where the person is liable to income-tax and engaged in the profession or calling mentioned above Rs.1,000 every year (2) Nothing in this entry shall apply to a person whose annual income exclusively earned out of the profession or calling or both of them in the year immediately preceding does not exceed Rs. 36,000. 3. (i) Members of Association recognised under the Forward Contract (Regulation) Act,1952. (74 of 1952) Rs. 500 every year. (ii) Members of stock exchanges recognised under the securities Contract (Regulation) Act, 1956. (42 of 1956.) Rs. 500 every year. (iii) Owners of oil pumps and service stations and where any oil pumps and service stations are leased thereof. Rs. 500 every year, (iv) Licenced foreign liquor vendors and employers of residential hotels and theatres as defined in the Bombay Shops and Establishments Act, 1948. (Bom. LXXIX of 1948) Rs. 500 every year, (v) Companies registered under the Companies Act, 1956 and engaged in any profession, trade or calling.  (a) Private Limited Companies Rs.500 every year. (b) Public Limited Companies Rs.1,000 every year. (vi) Individuals or institutions conducting chit funds. Rs. 1,000 every year, (vii) Banking companies as defined in the Banking Regulation Act,1949. (10 of 1949) Rs. 1,000 every year. (viii) Co-operative societies registered or deemed to be registered under the Gujarat Co-operative Societies Act, 1961 (Guj. X of 1962) (a) State level societies and district level societies engaged in any profession, trade or calling. Rs. 250 every year, (b) Co-operative sugar factories and co-operative spinning mills. Rs. 250 every year, (ix) Estate agents or estate brokers or building contractors. Rs. 500 every year, (x) Owners of video parlours or video libraries or both and where any video parlours or video libraries or both are leased, the lessees thereof Rs.500 every year. 4. Firms registered under the Indian Partnership Act, 1932,( IX of 1932) which are engaged in any professions, trades or callings. Rs.1000 every year. Explanation I Where partners of a firm registered under the India Partnership Act, 1932( IX of 1932) are liable to pay tax under this entry, the firm shall not be liable to pay tax under entries2 and3 and entries5 to 10 of the Schedule. Explanation II The liability of a partner to pay tax shall be limited to the extent of such liability of the firm of which he is a partner, to pay tax, as would have arisen under any of those entries if the firm had not been exempt under this explanation. Exemptions:-  (1) Where the prescribed authority certifies that in a preceding year the annual gross turnover of all sales or of all purchases of firm which is registered under the Indian Partnership Act, 1932 (IX of 1932) and which is a dealer as defined in the Gujarat Sales Tax Act, 1969 (I of 1970) has not exceeded five lakhs of rupees, the partners of such firm shall not be liable to pay tax for the year. (2) Where the prescribed authority certifies that the income of partner of a firm, which is not a dealer as defined in the Gujarat Sales Tax Act, 1969 (Guj.1 of 1970) from any profession, trade or calling carried on by such firm, during the preceding year has not exceeded thirty-six thousand rupees, such partner shall not be liable to pay tax for the year. 5. Occupiers of factories as defined in the factories Act, 1948 (63 of 1948) (not being dealers covered by entry 7). 6. Employers of establishments as defined in the Bombay Shops and Establishments Act, 1948 (Bom. XXXIX of 1948) (not being dealers covered by entry 7), where on an average employees employed in the establishment during a year are more than five per day, if the establishment is situated in,- 7. (i) A city Rs. 250 every year, (ii) a municipal borough, the population of which as ascertained at the last preceding census is more than 1,00,000 and in the area adjoining such municipal borough to the extent of3 kilometers from its limits, Rs. 200 every year, (iii) a specified area Rs. 150 every year. Explanation I for the purposes of item (iii) of this entry and item (iii) of entry 9, the expression "specified area" means- (a)(i) a district borough, or (ii) a local area  the population of which as ascertained at the last preceding census is more than 25,000 but not more than 1,00,000; (b)(i) a district headquarter, or (ii) a taluka headquarter,  not failing under either a City referred to in item (i) or a municipal borough referred to in item (ii) of this entry or, as the case may be, entry9. Explanation II In Explanation I- (a) the expression "local area" means - (i) a notified area as constituted from time to time under or deemed to be constituted under the Gujarat Municipalities Act, 1963; (Guj. 34 of 1964.) (ii) a cantonment as declared from time to time under the Cantonments Act, 1924; (b) the expression "district headquarter" means a city, town or village where the office of a Collector who exercises through out the district all the powers and discharges all the duties conferred and imposed on a Collector under the Bombay Land Revenue Code, 1879, (Bom. V of 1879.) is situated; (c) the expression ?taluka headquarter? means a city, town or village where the office of the Mamlatdar entrusted with the local revenue jurisdiction of a taluka, is situated. 7. Dealers as defined in the Gujarat Sales Tax Act, 1969, (Guj.1 of 1970) whose annual gross turnover of all sales or of all purchases is- (i) not more than Rs. 2,50,000 Nil (ii) more than Rs. 2,50,000 but not more than Rs. 5,00,000 Rs. 250 every year, (iii) more than Rs. 5,00,000 but not more than Rs. 10,00,000 Rs. 500 every year, (iv) more than Rs.10,00,000 Rs. 1,000 every year. Explanation For the purpose of this entry, the term, 'year' shall mean the year as defined in clause (37) of section2 of the Gujarat Sales Tax Act, 1969. (Guj.1 of 1970) 8. Holders of permits for transport vehicles granted Rs. 50 every year per under the Motor vehicles Act, 1988 which are vehicle; provided that used or adapted to be used for hire or reward, the total amount pay-Where any such person hold permits for more able by the same than two transport vehicles buses, taxis, trucks holder shall not exceed or three wheelers goods vehicles. Rs.1,000 in any year. Explanation- Persons residing together as members of one family and holding separate permits shall be one person for the purposes of this entry. 9. Money-lender licensed under the Bombay Money-lender Act, 1946 (Bom. XXXI of 1947) (i) in a city Rs. 500 every year. (ii) in a municipal borough the population of which as ascertained at the last preceding census is more than 1,00,000 and in the area adjoining such municipal borough to the extent of 3 kilometers from its limits. Rs. 250 every year. (iii) in a specified area. Rs. 150 every year. 10. Persons other than those mentioned in any of the preceding entries, who are engaged in any professions, trades, callings or employments and in respect of whom a notification is issued under the second proviso to sub-section (2) of section3. Such amount not exceeding Rs. 250 every year as may be specified in the said notification Explanation- For the purposes of this Schedule - (i) "City" means a city as constituted from time to time under the Bombay Provincial Municipal Corporation Act, 1949 (Bom. LIX of 1949) and includes the area adjoining such city to the extent of5 kilometers from its limits; (ii) "municipal borough" means a municipal borough as constituted from time to time or deemed to be constituted under the Gujarat Municipalities Act, 1963 (Guj. XXXIV of 1964) Exemptions :- The following persons shall be exempted from payment of tax under any of the entries2 to 10 of this Schedule - (1) Companies in respect of which orders for winding up are passed under the Companies Act, 1956, (1 of 1956) from the date of such orders. (2) Co-operative societies under liquidation from the date of the commencement of liquidation proceedings. (3) A primary co-operative society, the members of which are workers who are carrying on the activity of the society by their own labour; 
Gujarat State Tax on Professions, Trades, Callings and Employments Act, 1976_Section Sch.2--> State(s): Gujarat (See section 28) Sr. No. Enactments Amendments 1 2 3 1 The Bombay Provincial Municipal Act, 1949 (Bom. LIX of 1949). In section 127, in sub-section (2).-  (a) clause (b) shall be deleted;  (b) in clause (f), after the words "any other tax", the brackets and words "(not being a tax on professions, trades, callings and employments)" shall be inserted. 2 The Gujarat Panchayats Act, 1961 (Guj. VI of 1962) 1. In section 178  (1) in sub-section (1)  (a) clause (iv) shall be deleted;  (b) in clause (ix) after the figures "1958", the words "or a tax on professions, trades, callings and employments" shall be inserted;  (2) sub-section (5) shall be deleted. 3 The Gujarat Municipalities Act, 1963 (Guj. XXXIV of 1964) In section 99, in sub-section (1) in clause (xv), after the words "any other tax", the brackets and the words "(not being a tax on professions, trades, callings and employments)" shall be inserted 
