Gujarat Tax on Entry of Specified Goods into Local Areas (Amendment) Act, 2008_Section Preamble--> State(s): Gujarat An Act further to amend the Gujarat Tax on Entry of Specified Goods into Local Areas Act, 2001. It is hereby enacted in the Fifty-ninth Year of the Republic of India as follows:-
Gujarat Tax on Entry of Specified Goods into Local Areas (Amendment) Act, 2008_Section 1--> State(s): Gujarat (1) This Act may be called the Gujarat Tax on Entry of Specified Goods into Local Areas (Amendment) Act, 2008. (2) It shall come into force on the 15th April, 2008.
Gujarat Tax on Entry of Specified Goods into Local Areas (Amendment) Act, 2008_Section 2--> State(s): Gujarat In the Gujarat Tax on Entry of Specified Goods into Local Areas Act, 2001 (hereinafter referred to as "the principal Act"), in section 2, in clause (k), after the words "the Schedule", the words, brackets, figures and letter "and such other goods as the State Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, specify under sub-section (1A) of section 3" shall be added.
Gujarat Tax on Entry of Specified Goods into Local Areas (Amendment) Act, 2008_Section 3--> State(s): Gujarat In the principal Act, in section 3, after sub-section (1), the following sub-section shall be inserted, namely :- "(1A) Subject to such conditions as it may impose, the State Government may, if it is necessary so to do in the public interest to redress an inequitable situation or for sufficient and reasonable cause for removing discrimination between goods entering into the local areas from any place outside the State but not being a place outside the territory of the Union of India, for consumption, use or sale therein and goods manufactured or produced in the State, specify by notification in the Official Gazette, such other goods as the specified goods.".
Gujarat Tax on Entry of Specified Goods into Local Areas (Amendment) Act, 2008_Section 4--> State(s): Gujarat In the principal Act, for the existing Schedule, the following Schedule shall be substituted, namely :- "Schedule [See sections 2(k) and 3] Sr. No. Specified Goods Maximum rate of tax 1 2 3 1. Motor vehicles including chassis of motor vehicles and the body which is built on chassis of motor vehicles Twenty per cent 2. Cement Twenty per cent 3. Marbles or Granite (raw of polished) Twenty per cent 4. Kota stones Twenty per cent 5. Naphtha Twenty per cent 6. Light Diesal Oil Twenty per cent 7. High Speed Diesel Oil Twenty per cent 8. Yam of all types except nylon yarn, polyester viscose yarn and cotton yarn Twenty per cent 9. Such other goods as may be specified by the State Government by notification in the Official Gazette Twenty per cent.". 
