Vir Narmad South Gujarat University (Amendment) Act, 2012_Section Preamble--> State(s): Gujarat 1 An Act further to amend the Vir Narmad South Gujarat University Act, 1965. It is hereby enacted in the Sixty-third Year of the Republic of India as follows:- The following Act of the Gujarat Legislature received the assent of the Governor on 15th March, 2012 and was published in the Gujarat Govt. Gazette, Extra-ordinary, Part IV, No. 2. dated 15th March, 2012.
Vir Narmad South Gujarat University (Amendment) Act, 2012_Section 1--> State(s): Gujarat This Act may be called the Vir Narmad South Gujarat University (Amendment) Act, 2012.
Vir Narmad South Gujarat University (Amendment) Act, 2012_Section 2--> State(s): Gujarat In the Vir Narmad South Gujarat University Act, 1965 (Guj. 38 of 1965) (hereinafter referred to as "the principal Act"), in the long title, for the words "the Vir Narmad South Gujarat University", the words "Veer Narmad South Gujarat University" shall be substituted.
Vir Narmad South Gujarat University (Amendment) Act, 2012_Section 3--> State(s): Gujarat In the principal Act, in section 1, in sub-section (1), for the words and figures "the Vir Narmad South Gujarat University- Act, 1965 (Guj. 38 of 1965)", the words and figures "the Veer Narmad South Gujarat University Act, 1965" shall be substituted.
Vir Narmad South Gujarat University (Amendment) Act, 2012_Section 4--> State(s): Gujarat In the principal Act, in section 2, in clause (15), for the words "the Vir Nannad South Gujarat University", the words "Veer Narmad South Gujarat University" shall he substituted.
Vir Narmad South Gujarat University (Amendment) Act, 2012_Section 5--> State(s): Gujarat In the principal Act, in section 3, in sub-section (1), for the words "The Vir Nannad South Gujarat University", the words "Veer Narrnad South Gujarat University" shall be substituted.
Vir Narmad South Gujarat University (Amendment) Act, 2012_Section 6--> State(s): Gujarat In the principal Act, after section 60A, the following section shall be inserted, namely:- "60B. Construction of reference to the Vir Narmad South Gujarat University Act, 1965 and Vir Narmad South Gujarat University in existing laws, instruments, etc.:- (1) As from the commencement of the Vir Narmad South Gujarat University (Amendment) Act, 2012 (Guj. 2 of 2012) (hereinafter referred to as "the said Act"), any reference in any existing law or instrument or document- (1) to the expression "the Vir Narmad South Gujarat University Act, 1965" shall be construed as if it were a reference to "the Veer Narmad South Gujarat University Act, 1965", and (ii) to the expression "The Vir Narmad South Gujarat University" shall be construed as if it were a reference to "Veer Narmad South Gujarat University". (2) Any act done by, or any suit or other proceeding filed by or against the Vir Narmad South Gujarat University before the commencement of the said Act shall be deemed to have been done or, as the case may be, filed by or against Veer Narmad South Gujarat University. Explanation.- For the purpose of this section "existing law" means any enactment of a Legislature or any other competent authority in relation to matters specified in List II and List III in the Seventh Schedule to the Constitution of India as in force in any part of the State of Gujarat immediately before the commencement of the said Act and includes any statute, ordinance, rule, bye-law, regulation, order, notification, scheme, form or other instrument having the force of law made, prescribed or issued under any such enactment.". 
