Bombay Land Revenue (Gujarat Second Amendment) Act, 1995_Section Preamble--> State(s): Gujarat An Act further to amend the Bombay Land Revenue Code, 1879. It is hereby enacted in the Forty-sixth Year of the Republic of India as follows:-
Bombay Land Revenue (Gujarat Second Amendment) Act, 1995_Section 1--> State(s): Gujarat (1) This Act may be called the Bombay Land Revenue (Gujarat Second Amendment) Act, 1996. (2) This section shall come into force at once and the remaining provisions shall come into force on such date as the State Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, appoint.
Bombay Land Revenue (Gujarat Second Amendment) Act, 1995_Section 2--> State(s): Gujarat In the Bombay Land Revenue Code, 1879 (hereinafter referred to as "the principal Act") in Chapter XB, for the words "village accountant" wherever they occur, the words "competent authority" shall be substituted.
Bombay Land Revenue (Gujarat Second Amendment) Act, 1995_Section 3--> State(s): Gujarat In the principal Act, in Chapter XB, after the heading "OF THE AGRICULTURIST PASS BOOK" but before section 135M, the following new section shall be inserted, namely:- "135LL. Application. - (1) This chapter shall apply to such taluka in a district as the State Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, specify. (2) This chapter shall cease to apply to such taluka in a district as the State Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, specify. (3) This chapter shall re-apply to such taluka in a district as the State Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, specify.".
Bombay Land Revenue (Gujarat Second Amendment) Act, 1995_Section 4--> State(s): Gujarat In the principal Act, in section 135M,- (1) in sub-section (1), for the words "for which a village accountant is appointed", the words, brackets figures "in a taluka to which this Chapter is applied under sub-suction (1) or re-applied under sub-section (3) of section 135LL and for which a competent authority is appointed" shall be substituted; (2) for sub-section (2), the following shall be substituted, namely;- "(2)(a) The agriculturist pass-book shall be supplied to the agriculturist holding land in a taluka to which this Chapter is applied under sub-section (1) or re-applied tinder sub-section (3) of section 135LL. (b) The pass-book shall be supplied under clause (a)- (i) within such period from the date on which this Chapter is applied or re-applied to the taluka as the State Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, specify; and (ii) on payment of such fees as may be prescribed by rules made under this Act. (c) The duplicate agriculturist pass-book shall be retained by the competent authority.".
Bombay Land Revenue (Gujarat Second Amendment) Act, 1995_Section 5--> State(s): Gujarat In the principal Act in section 135N, in the Explanation,- (1) for the words, figures and letter "and section 135O", the words figures and letters "and sections 135O and 135R" shall be substituted; (2) in clause (iv), after the figures "1970", the words, brackets a ad figures "or the Banking Companies (Acquisition and Transfer of Undertaking) Act, 1980" shall be inserted, (3) after clause (ix), the following clauses shall be inserted, namely:- "(ixa) a co-operative society registered under the Gujarat Co-operative Societies Act, 1961: (ixb) a panchayat constituted under the Gujarat Panchayats Act, 1993.".
Bombay Land Revenue (Gujarat Second Amendment) Act, 1995_Section 6--> State(s): Gujarat In the principal Act, after section 135O, the following new sections shall be inserted, namely:- "135OO. Document for registration of transfer of agricultural land to accompany the agriculturist pass-book. - (1) No document of transfer of any agricultural land by sale, purchase, gift, mortgage whether with or without possession, exchange, partition, lease, surrender or otherwise shall be registered by any registering authority in a taluka to which this Chapter is applied under sub-section (1) or re-applied under sub-section (3) of section 135LL unless such document is accompanied by the agriculturist pass-book relating to such land. (2) The registering authority shall after registering such document make necessary entries in the agriculturist pass-book of the agriculturist and thereafter return the pass-book to the agriculturist. (3) The registering authority shall make a report in writing of such registration to the competent authority. 135OOO. Responsibility of competent authority. - The competent authority shall be responsible to keep, the agriculturist pass-book and the duplicate agriculturist pass-book retained by it, up-to-date by making necessary entries therein as provided in sections 135P and 135Q, respectively.".
Bombay Land Revenue (Gujarat Second Amendment) Act, 1995_Section 7--> State(s): Gujarat In the principal Act, for section 135P, the following shall be substituted, namely:- "135P. Agriculturists pass-book to be kept up-to-date. - Whenever entries are transferred from the register of mutations to the record of rights under section 135D, the competent authority shall call for the agriculturist pass-book from the concerned agriculturist and thereupon the agriculturist shall produce the agriculturist pass-book before the competent authority within such period as may be prescribed by rules made under this Act and on such production of pass-book, the competent authority shall make entries therein, corresponding to those in the record of rights and keep such pass-book up-to-date.".
Bombay Land Revenue (Gujarat Second Amendment) Act, 1995_Section 8--> State(s): Gujarat In the principal Act, for section 135R including the Explanation thereunder, the following shall be substituted, namely:- "135R. Mode of proof of entries in agriculturist pass-book. - A certified copy of any entry not being an entry made by a bank or registering authority in- (a) the duplicate agriculturist pass-book maintained by the competent authority, or (b) the agriculturist pass-book of the agriculturist, shall in all legal proceedings be received as prima fade evidence of the existence of such entry and shall be admitted as evidence of the matters, transactions and accounts therein recorded to the same extent as the original entry itself in the record of rights but not further or otherwise.".
Bombay Land Revenue (Gujarat Second Amendment) Act, 1995_Section 9--> State(s): Gujarat In the principal Act, in Chapter XB, after section 135R, the following sections and Explanation shall be added, namely:- "135S. Penalty for contravention of section 135P. - Any agriculturist who contravenes the provision of section 135P shall be punished with fine which may extend to two hundred rupees. 135T. Penalty for unauthorised alternatives in pass-book or furnishing false information. - Any person who unauthorisely makes, alters or deletes any entry in the pass-book or furnishes false information to the competent authority in relation to the pass-book shall be punished with fine which may extend to one thousand rupees. Explanation.-For the purposes of this Chapter,- (i) the expression 'agriculturist' means land holder who holds land for the purpose of agriculture; (ii) the expression 'competent authority' means such revenue officer as the State Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, appoint; (iii) the expression 'registering authority' means the registering officer appointed under the Registration Act, 1908.
Bombay Land Revenue (Gujarat Second Amendment) Act, 1995_Section 10--> State(s): Gujarat In the principal Act, in section 214, in sub-section (2), after clause (v), the following clause shall be added, namely:- "(v) regulating the supply of agriculturist pass-book.". 
