Bombay Stamp (Gujarat Amendment) Act, 1990_Section Preamble--> State(s): Gujarat An Act further to amend the Bombay Stamp Act, 1958. It is hereby enacted in the Forty-first Year of the Republic of India as follows:-
Bombay Stamp (Gujarat Amendment) Act, 1990_Section 1--> State(s): Gujarat (1) This Act may be called the Bombay Stamp (Gujarat Amendment) Act 1990. (2) It shall come into force on such date as, the State Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, appoint.
Bombay Stamp (Gujarat Amendment) Act, 1990_Section 2--> State(s): Gujarat In the Bombay Stamp Act, 1958, after section 3A, the following section shall be inserted, namely:- "3B. Certain instruments relating to vacant land chargeable with additional duty. - (1) Every instrument of- (a) conveyance of vacant land. (b) exchange of vacant land. (c) gift of vacant land. (d) lease of vacant land. (e) power of attorney when given for consideration and authorising the attorney to sell vacant land; and (f) transfer of lease of vacant land by way of assignment and not by way of underlease, chargeable with duty under section 3 and mentioned in articles 20, 26, 28, 30, clause (f) of article 45 and article 57 respectively in Schedule I shall, when such vacant land is situate in an urban area, be chargeable in addition to the duties chargeable under sections 3 and 3A with a duty at the rate of twenty-five percent of the duty chargeable under section 3: Provided that nothing in this section shall apply to a vacant land of an area not exceeding one hundred square meters which is intended to be used for a residential purpose. (2) Except as otherwise provided in sub-section (1), the provisions of this Act and the rules made thereunder shall, so far as may be, apply in relation to the additional duty chargeable under sub-section,(1) as they apply in relation to the duty chargeable under section 3: Explanation.-For the purpose of this section- (1) "urban area" means any area which is for the time being comprised in- (a) (i) development area; or (ii) an urban development area; within the meaning of the Gujarat Town Planning and Urban Development Act, 1976; or (b) a municipal borough or a notified area within the meaning of the Gujarat Municipalities Act, 1963; or (c) a nagar within the meaning of the Gujarat Panchayats Act, 1961.". (2) "vacant land" means land in an urban, area, agricultural or non-agricultural, excluding land on which any building has been constructed in accordance with any law regulating such construction and the land appurtenant to such building to the minimum extent required under such law or under the provisions of the Gujarat Town Planning and Urban Development Act, 1976 but including the land on which a building is constructed upto the lintel level.". 
