Bombay Industrial Relations (Gujarat Amendment) Act, 1961_Section Preamble--> State(s): Gujarat An Act further to amend the Bombay Industrial Relations Act, 1946. It is hereby enacted in the Twelfth Year of the Republic of India as follows:-
Bombay Industrial Relations (Gujarat Amendment) Act, 1961_Section 1--> State(s): Gujarat This Act may be called the Bombay Industrial Relations (Gujarat Amendment) Act, 1961. (2) It shall come into force on such date as the State Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, appoint.
Bombay Industrial Relations (Gujarat Amendment) Act, 1961_Section 2--> State(s): Gujarat In section 3 of the Bombay Industrial Relations Act, 1946 (hereinafter referred to as "the principal Act"),- (i) for clause (13), the following shall be substituted, namely:- "(13) "employee" means any person (including an apprentice) employed in any industry to do any skilled or unskilled manual, supervisory, technical or electrical work for hire or reward, whether the terms of employment be express or implied, and includes" (a) a person employed in the execution of any work in respect of which the owner of an undertaking is an employer within the meaning of sub-clause (e) of clause (14). (b) a person who has been dismissed or discharged from employment on account of any dispute relating to a change in respect, of which a notice is given or an application made under section 42 whether before or after his dismissal or discharge; but does not include- (i) a person who is employed in the, police service or as an officer or other employee of a prison, (ii) a person, who being employed primarily in a managerial, administrative or supervisory capacity draws basic pay (excluding allowances) exceeding five hundred rupees per month, and (iii) irrespective of the pay drawn, any other person or class of persons employed in any capacity specified in clause (ii) or in a technical capacity, which the State Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, specify in this behalf"; and (ii) in clause (14), for sub-clause (e), the following shall be substituted, namely:- "(e) where the owner of any undertaking in the course of or for the purpose of conducting the undertaking entrusts the execution of the whole or any part of any work which is ordinarily a part of the undertaking, to any person otherwise than as the servant or agent of the owner, the owner of the undertaking;" (iii) in clause (38A) for the figures and letter "86A" the figures and letters "86AA" shall be substituted.
Bombay Industrial Relations (Gujarat Amendment) Act, 1961_Section 3--> State(s): Gujarat In section 10 of the principal Act, in sub-section (4), after the words "or is eligible for being appointed a judge of such Court" the words "or has presided over a Labour Court for not less than ten years" shall be inserted and after the proviso, the following further proviso shall be inserted, namely:- "Provided further that a member, who before his appointment as such member has presided over a Labour Court for not less then ten years shall notwithstanding anything contained in section 92, be eligible for appointment on a Bench of the Industrial Court consisting only of one member and section 92 shall have effect accordingly."
Bombay Industrial Relations (Gujarat Amendment) Act, 1961_Section 4--> State(s): Gujarat In section 14 of the principal Act, for the third proviso the following shall substituted, namely:- "Thirdly, that- (i) where two or more unions fulfilling the conditions necessary for registration apply in the same calendar month for registration in respect of the same industry in any local area, subject to the provisions of the second proviso, the union having the largest membership of employees employed in the industry during the whole of the period of three calendar mouths immediately preceding that in which the applications were made shall be registered, and any application made in any subsequent calendar months shall not be considered by the Registrar until the applications made in the earlier calendar month are disposed of by him; (ii) where a union fulfilling the conditions necessary for registration makes an application during any calendar months for registration in respect of an industry in any local area, any application in any subsequent calendar month by any other union for registration in respect of the same industry shall not be considered by the Registrar until the former application is disposed of by him;".
Bombay Industrial Relations (Gujarat Amendment) Act, 1961_Section 5--> State(s): Gujarat To sub-section (3) of section 16 of the principal Act, the words "and issue certificate of registration in such from as may be prescribed" shall he added at the end.
Bombay Industrial Relations (Gujarat Amendment) Act, 1961_Section 6--> State(s): Gujarat In section 23 of the principal Act, (1) in sub-section (1) (i) for clause (v) the following shall be substituted, namely:- "(v) every industrial dispute in which a settlement is not readied by conciliation shall be offered to be submitted lo arbitration or for decisions to a Wage Board as may be mutually agreed upon and the arbitration of the Industrial Court under Chapter XI shall not be refused by it may dispute;". (ii) clause (vii) shall be deleted; (2) to sub-section (3), the following provisoes shall be added, namely:- "Provided that where two or more unions satisfying the conditions necessary for being entered in the approved list under sub-section (1) apply in the same calendar month for being so entered in respect of the same industry in any local area, union having the largest membership of employers employed in, the industry during the calendar month immediately preceding that in which the applications were made shall be entered in the approved list and any application made in subsequent calendar months shall not he considered by the Registrar until the applications made in the earlier calendar months are disposed of by him. Provided further that where a union satisfying the conditions necessary for being entered in the approved list applies in any calendar month for being so entered in respect of an industry in any local area, any application in any subsequent calendar month by any other union for being so entered in respect of the same industry shall not be considered by the Registrar until the former application is disposed of by him." (3) to sub-section (4), the following shall be added at the end, namely:- "If he is satisfied that the membership of the applicant union had in the calendar month in which the application was made as also in the calendar month immediately preceding it was respectively larger than the membership of the approved unions in those months. The provisions of sub-section (3) shall mutatis mutandis apply to such application."
Bombay Industrial Relations (Gujarat Amendment) Act, 1961_Section 7--> State(s): Gujarat In section 23A of the principal Act, for the words "shall be deemed to be the approved union" the words "shall continue to have all the rights and privileges of an approved union in respect of its members" shall be substituted.
Bombay Industrial Relations (Gujarat Amendment) Act, 1961_Section 8--> State(s): Gujarat In section 24 of the principal Act, in clause (ii) the word "or" shall be added at the end and after clause (ii) the following shall be inserted, namely:- "(iii) as instigated, aided or assisted the commencement or continuance of a strike or a stoppage which has been held or declared to be illegal.".
Bombay Industrial Relations (Gujarat Amendment) Act, 1961_Section 9--> State(s): Gujarat After section 24 of the principal Act, the following new section shall be inserted, namely:- "24A. Appeal to Industrial Court from order of Registrar. - (1) Any party to a proceeding before the Registrar may, within 30 days from the date of an order passed by the Registrar under this Chapter, appeal against such order to the Industrial Court: Provided that, the Industrial Court may for sufficient reason admit any appeal made after the expiry of such period. (2) The provisions of sub-sections (2) and (3) of section 20 shall apply mutatis mutandis to an appeal under this suction.".
Bombay Industrial Relations (Gujarat Amendment) Act, 1961_Section 10--> State(s): Gujarat In section 25 of the principal Act, after clause (c), the following clause shall be inserted, namely:- "(d) to remain present during a departmental enquiry against an employee, who is a member of that union."
Bombay Industrial Relations (Gujarat Amendment) Act, 1961_Section 11--> State(s): Gujarat In section 27 of the principal Act, (i) in clause (a) of sub-section (1), after the words "any combination of employers in an industry" the words "in any local area" shall be inserted; (ii) after sub-section (3), the following sub-sections shall be inserted, namely:- "(4) Where in any proceeding under this Act, an employer is represented by an association of employers, a registrar agreement settlement, submission or a Ward to which such association is a party, shall be binding on such employer. (5) Where in pursuance of the provisions of sub-section (2) an association of employers represents any employers in any proceeding under this Act, it shall, at the earliest stage of the proceeding finish to the authority before whom it is hold a list containing the names of the employers whom it represents".
Bombay Industrial Relations (Gujarat Amendment) Act, 1961_Section 12--> State(s): Gujarat After section 27A of the principal Act, the following new section shall be inserted, namely:- "27B. Continuance of recognition of association of employers for altered local area. - Notwithstanding anything contained in this Act, on any alteration in any local areas any association of employers recognised under sub-section (1) of section 27 for the local area or areas immediately before such alteration, shall be entitled to represent the employers in accordance with the provisions of sub-section (2) of that section in the altered local area or areas, as the case may be, for a period of twelve months from the date on which such alteration is effected."
Bombay Industrial Relations (Gujarat Amendment) Act, 1961_Section 13--> State(s): Gujarat In section 64 of the principal Act, (i) in clause (a), in sub-clause (ii) after the words and figures "section 72 or 73" the words, figures and letter "or referred for decision under section 86C" shall be inserted. (ii) in clause (b), in sub-clause (ii) after the words, figures and letter "section 72, 73 or 73A" the words, figures and letter "or referred for decision under section 86C or 86CC" shall be inserted.
Bombay Industrial Relations (Gujarat Amendment) Act, 1961_Section 14--> State(s): Gujarat In section 82 of the principal Act, after the words "the person affected thereby" the words "or by a representative union which is also an approved union," shall be inserted.
Bombay Industrial Relations (Gujarat Amendment) Act, 1961_Section 15--> State(s): Gujarat Section 85 of the principal Act shall be renumbered as sub-section (1) of that section and after the sub-section so renumbered, the following sub-section shall be inserted, namely:- "(2) The Industrial Court may, be order in writing and for reasons to be stated therein, withdraw any proceeding under this Act pending before a Labour Court and transfer it for disposal to another Labour Court which may, subject to any special directions in the order of transfer, proceed in the matter either de novo or from the stage at which it is so transferred.".
Bombay Industrial Relations (Gujarat Amendment) Act, 1961_Section 16--> State(s): Gujarat In Chapter XII of the principal Act, after section 86, the following new section shall be inserted, namely:- "86A. Power to award costs. - A Labour Court shall have the power to direct by whom the whole or any part of the costs of any proceeding before it shall be paid: Provided that, no such coats shall be directed to be paid for the services of any legal adviser engaged by any party. (2) The provisions of section 93 shall apply to an order made under this section in the same manner as they apply to an order of the Industrial Court."
Bombay Industrial Relations (Gujarat Amendment) Act, 1961_Section 17--> State(s): Gujarat Section 86A of the principal Act shall be renumbered as section 86AA.
Bombay Industrial Relations (Gujarat Amendment) Act, 1961_Section 18--> State(s): Gujarat In section 87 of the principal Act, in clause (a)- (i) in sub-clause (i), for the figures and word "20 or 44" the figures, letter and word "20, 24A or 44" shall be substituted; and (ii) after sub-clause (viii) the following sub-clause shall be inserted, namely:- "(viii a) to decide applications made to it under section 115 B;".
Bombay Industrial Relations (Gujarat Amendment) Act, 1961_Section 19--> State(s): Gujarat In section 93 of the principal Act, after the words "a place of residence or business" the words "or where such place is within the City of Ahmedabad before the Court of Small Causes of Ahmedabad" shall be inserted.
Bombay Industrial Relations (Gujarat Amendment) Act, 1961_Section 20--> State(s): Gujarat In section 107 of the principal Act, after the words "who acts in contravention of "the words, brackets and figures "a model standing order notified and in operation under sub-section (5) of section 35 of" shall be inserted.
Bombay Industrial Relations (Gujarat Amendment) Act, 1961_Section 21--> State(s): Gujarat In section 114 of the principal Act, in sub-section (2), after the words "in that local area" the words "and with effect from such date", shall be inserted.
Bombay Industrial Relations (Gujarat Amendment) Act, 1961_Section 22--> State(s): Gujarat After section 115A of the principal Act, the following section shall be inserted. "115B. Construction and interpretation of awards. - Where any question arises regarding the construction or interpretation of any award, any employer or employee on whom such award is binding may:- (a) if the award was made by a Labour Court, Wage Board or Industrial Court, apply to the Court or Board which made the award, and (b) if the award was made by any other arbitrator, apply to the Industrial Court, for deciding the question. The Court or Board to which the application is made may, after giving the parties concerned an opportunity of being heard, decide the question and such decision shall be binding on the parties on whom the award is binding."
Bombay Industrial Relations (Gujarat Amendment) Act, 1961_Section 23--> State(s): Gujarat In section 116 of the principal Act, after sub-section (4), the following sub-section shall be inserted, namely:- "(4A) A notice given by a party under sub-section (1) or (3) may be withdrawn by it by a subsequent notice given in writing in the prescribed manner before the expiry of two calendar months from the date on which the previous notice was given. The party giving such subsequent notice shall send a copy thereof to the Registrar and the Labour Officer of the local area concerned."
Bombay Industrial Relations (Gujarat Amendment) Act, 1961_Section 24--> State(s): Gujarat To sub-section (3) of section 116A of the principal Act, the following shall be added, namely:- "with effect from such date as it may specify."
Bombay Industrial Relations (Gujarat Amendment) Act, 1961_Section 25--> State(s): Gujarat Section 121 of the principal Act shall be deleted.
Bombay Industrial Relations (Gujarat Amendment) Act, 1961_Section 26--> State(s): Gujarat After section 123 of the principal Act, the following new section shall be inserted, namely:- "124. Delegation of powers. - The State Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, direct that any power exercisable by it under this Act or rules made thereunder shall, in relation to such matters and subject to such conditions, if any, as may be specified in the direction, be exercisable also by such officer or authority subordinate to it as may be specified in the notification."
Bombay Industrial Relations (Gujarat Amendment) Act, 1961_Section 27--> State(s): Gujarat In Schedule III to the principal Act in item (5), the word "awards" shall be deleted. 
