Bombay Stamp (Gujarat Amendment) Act, 1997_Section Preamble--> State(s): Gujarat An Act further to amend the Bombay Stamp Act, 1958. It is hereby enacted in the Forty-eighth Year of the Republic of India as follows:-
Bombay Stamp (Gujarat Amendment) Act, 1997_Section 1--> State(s): Gujarat (1) This Act may be called the Bombay Stamp (Gujarat Amendment) Act, 1997. (2) It shall come into force on the 1st April, 1997.
Bombay Stamp (Gujarat Amendment) Act, 1997_Section 2--> State(s): Gujarat In the Bombay Stamp Act, 1958 (hereinafter referred to as "the principal Act"), in Schedule I- (1) for article 6, the following shall be substituted, namely:- "6. AGREEMENT OR MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT RELATING TO DEPOSIT OF TITLE DEEDS, PAWN, PLEDGE OR HYPOTHECATION, that is to say any instrument evidencing an agreement or memorandum of agreement relating to- (1) the deposit of title deeds or instruments constituting or being evidence of the title to any property whatever (other than a marketable security), where such deposit has been made by way of security for the repayment of money advanced or to be advanced by way of loan or an existing or future debt- (a) if such loan or debt is repayable on demand or more than three months from the date of the instrument evidencing the agreement,- (i) where the amount of loan or debt does not exceed Rs. 15,00.000 Fifty paise for every hundred rupees or part thereof. (ii) where it exceeds Rs. 15,00,000 Subject to maximum of one lakh rupees, one rupee for every hundred rupees or part thereof. (b) if such loan or debt is repayable not more than three months from the date of such instrument Half the duty payable under sub-clause (a). (2) the pawn, pledge or hypothecation of movable property, where such pawn, pledge or hypothecation has been made by way of security for the repayment of money advanced or to be advanced by way of loan or an existing or future debt- (i) where the amount of loan or debt does not exceed Rs. 5.00,000 Nil. (ii) where it exceeds Rs. 5,00,000 One hundred rupees for every one lakh rupees or part thereof."; (2) in article 20,- (i) after clause (c), the following clause shall be inserted, namely:- "(d) Conveyance, so far as it relates to amalgamation of companies under the order of the High Court under section 394 of the Companies Act, 1956. Two rupees for every hundred rupees or part thereof of the market value of the property which is the subject matter of such conveyance."; (ii) after Explanation II, the following Explanation shall be inserted, namely:- "EXPLANATION III.-For the purposes of clause (d), the market value of the properly shall he deemed to be the amount of total value of shares issued or allotted by the transferee company, either in exchange or otherwise, and the amount of consideration, if any, paid for such amalgamation."; (3) in article 30, after clause (c), the following clause shall be inserted, namely;- "(d) where the lease relates to movable property Two rupees for every hundred rupees or part thereof on the amount of average annual rent plus the total amount of fine or premium or money advanced or to be advanced, irrespective of the period for which such lease or agreement to lease is executed.". 
