Bombay Land Revenue (Gujarat Amendment) Act, 1976_Section Preamble--> State(s): Gujarat Enacted by the President in the Twenty-seventh Year of the Republic of India. An Act further to amend the Bombay Land Revenue Code, 1879, as in force in the State of Gujarat. In exercise of the powers conferred by section 3 of the Gujarat State Legislature (Delegation of Powers) Act, 1976, the President is pleased to enact as follows:-
Bombay Land Revenue (Gujarat Amendment) Act, 1976_Section 1--> State(s): Gujarat (1) This Act may be called the Bombay Land Revenue (Gujarat Amendment) Act, 1976. (2) It shall come into force on such date as the State Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, appoint.
Bombay Land Revenue (Gujarat Amendment) Act, 1976_Section 2--> State(s): Gujarat In section 48 of the Bombay Land Revenue Code, 1879, as in force in the State of Gujarat (hereinafter referred to as the principal Act),- (i) for sub-section (1), the following sub-section shall be substituted namely:- "(1) The land revenue leviable on any land under the provisions of this Act shall be assessed, or shall be deemed to have been assessed, as the case may be, with reference to the use of the land- (a) for the purpose of agriculture; (b) for the purpose of residence; (c) for the purpose of industry; (d) for the purpose of residence; (e) for any other purpose."; (ii) in sub-section (2),- (a) for the words "Where land assessed for use for any purpose is used for any other purpose", the words, figures and letters "Where land assessed for use for any purpose is permitted or deemed to have been permitted under section 65, or, as the case may be, under section 65A, to be used for any other purpose, or is used for any other purpose without the permission of the Collector being first obtained or before the expiry of the period prescribed by section 65, or as the case may be, by section 65A" shall be substituted; (b) after the words "fixed at a different rate", the words "with effect from the commencement of the revenue year in which the land is so permitted or deemed to have been permitted to be used, or, as the case may be, is used without, the permission of the Collector", shall be inserted.
Bombay Land Revenue (Gujarat Amendment) Act, 1976_Section 3--> State(s): Gujarat In section 65 of the principal Act, the last paragraph and the marginal note thereto shall be omitted.
Bombay Land Revenue (Gujarat Amendment) Act, 1976_Section 4--> State(s): Gujarat After section 65 of the principal Act, the following section shall be inserted namely:- "65A. Procedure if occupant wishes to apply his land from one non-agricultural purpose to another non-agricultural purpose. - Where the occupant of any land assessed or held for any non-agricultural purpose wishes to use such land or part thereof for any other non-agricultural purpose, the Collector's permission shall in the first place be applied for by him and the provisions of section 65 shall, so far as may be, apply to such application. Explanation.-In this section, and section 67A, "non-agricultural purpose" means any of the purposes specified in clauses (b) to (e) of sub-section (1) of section 48.".
Bombay Land Revenue (Gujarat Amendment) Act, 1976_Section 5--> State(s): Gujarat For section 66 of the principal Act, the following section shall be substituted, namely:- "66. Penalty for using land without permission. - If any land referred to in section 65 or section 65A be used for any purpose other than the purpose for which such land is assessed or held without the permission of the Collector being first obtained, or before the expiry of three months from the date of application for such permission, the occupant and any tenant or other person holding under or through him shall, without prejudice to the occupant's liability to pay the new assessment which may be leviable under the provisions of section 48, be liable to be summarily evicted by the Collector from the land so used and from the entire survey number or sub-division of the survey number of which it may form a part. Any tenant of any occupant or any other person holding under or through an occupant, who shall without the occupant's consent use any such land for any such purpose, and thereby render the said occupant liable to the penalty aforesaid, shall be responsible to the said occupant in damages.".
Bombay Land Revenue (Gujarat Amendment) Act, 1976_Section 6--> State(s): Gujarat In section 67 of the principal Act, for the words "in the last two preceding sections", the words, figures and letter "in sections 65, 65A and 66" shall be substituted.
Bombay Land Revenue (Gujarat Amendment) Act, 1976_Section 7--> State(s): Gujarat After section 67 of the principal Act, the following section shall be inserted namely:- 67A. Payment of conversion tax by occupant for change of use of land in certain areas. - (1) Where any land assessed or held for the purpose of agriculture and situated in an area specified in column (2) of the Table below (hereafter in this section referred to as the specified area)- (a) is permitted, or deemed to have been permitted, under section 65, to be used for any other purpose; or (b) is used for any other purpose without the permission of the Collector being first obtained or before the expiry of the period prescribed in that section, the occupant of such land shall be liable to pay to the State Government, a tax at the rate specified in the corresponding entry in column (3), column (4), or column (5), as the case may be, of the said Table from the date on which such permission is, or is deemed to have been, granted, or from the date on which the land is put to such use, whichever is earlier. (2) Where any land assessed or held for any non-agricultural purpose (hereafter in this section referred to as the existing non-agricultural purpose) and situated in a specified area- (a) is permitted or is deemed to have been permitted, under section 65A, to be used for any other non-agricultural purpose; or (b) is used for any other non-agricultural purpose without the permission of the Collector being first obtained or before the expiry of three months from the date of application for such permission. the occupant of such land shall be liable to pay to the Slate Government, a tax at such rate as is equivalent to the difference between the rate of tax applicable to the other non-agricultural purpose specified in the corresponding entry in column (3), column (4) or column (5), as the case may be, of the Table below and the rate of tax applicable to the existing non-agricultural purpose specified in the said columns: Provided that no tax shall be payable under this sub-section if the rate of tax applicable to the other non-agricultural purpose is lower than the rate applicable to the existing non-agricultural purpose. (3) The tax payable under this section shall be known as conversion tax and shall be payable by the occupant to such authority, in such manner and at such times as may be prescribed by rules made under section 214. TABLE Sr. No. Areas in which land is situated Rate of conversion tax per square metre of land   When land is to be used for a residential purpose When land is to be used for an industrial purpose When land is to be used for a commercial or any other non-agricultural purpose (1) (2) (3) (4) (5)  Rs. Rs. Rs. 1. Cities and towns with a population exceeding 50,000 but not exceeding 1 lakh and their adjoining areas. 0.25 0.50 0.75 2. Cities and towns with a population exceeding 1 lakh but not exceeding 2.5 lakhs and their adjoining areas. 0.50 1.00 1.50 3. Cities and towns with a population exceeding 2.5 lakhs but not exceeding 5 lakhs and their adjoining areas. 0.75 1.50 2.25 4. Cities and towns with a population exceeding 5 lakhs and their adjoining areas. 1.00 2.00 3.00 Explanation.-In the above Table- (i) "adjoining area" means:- (a) in relation to the City of Ahmedabad or any other local area which is constituted to be a City under section 3 of the Bombay Provincial Municipal Corporations Act, 1949, as in force in the State of Gujarat, or a town with a population exceeding 2.5 lakhs, a peripheral area of five kilometers; (b) in relation to any other City or town, a peripheral area of one kilometre; (ii) "population" means population as ascertained at the last preceding census of which relevant figures have been published.".
Bombay Land Revenue (Gujarat Amendment) Act, 1976_Section 8--> State(s): Gujarat In section 187 of the principal Act, for the words "All sums due on account of land revenue", the words "All sums due on account of land revenue, conversion tax" shall be substituted.
Bombay Land Revenue (Gujarat Amendment) Act, 1976_Section 9--> State(s): Gujarat In sub-section (2) of section 214 of the principal Act, after clause (h), the following clause shall be inserted, namely:- "(hh) prescribing the authority to which, the manner in which, and the times at which, the conversion tax shall be payable by an occupant under section 67A;". (Fakhruddin Ali Ahmed) President. (K.K. Sundaram) Secretary to the Government of India. 
