Bombay Land Improvement Schemes (Gujarat Amendment) Act, 1963_Section Preamble--> State(s): Gujarat An Act to amend the Bombay Land Improvement Schemes Act, 1942. It is hereby enacted in the Fourteenth Year of the Republic of India as follows:-
Bombay Land Improvement Schemes (Gujarat Amendment) Act, 1963_Section 1--> State(s): Gujarat This Act may be called the Bombay Land Improvement Schemes (Gujarat Amendment) Act, 1963.
Bombay Land Improvement Schemes (Gujarat Amendment) Act, 1963_Section 2--> State(s): Gujarat In section 2 of the Bombay Land Improvement Schemes Act, 1942 (hereinafter referred to as "the principal Act"), in clause (2A) after the words "to be the Divisional Soil Conservation Officer" the words "and includes any other officer authorised by the State Government to exercise the powers and perform the duties of a Divisional Soil Conservation Officer under this Act" shall be inserted.
Bombay Land Improvement Schemes (Gujarat Amendment) Act, 1963_Section 3--> State(s): Gujarat In section 5 of the principal Act, in sub-section (3), for the words "Official Gazette" the word "village" and for the words "twenty-one days" the words "seven days" shall be substituted.
Bombay Land Improvement Schemes (Gujarat Amendment) Act, 1963_Section 4--> State(s): Gujarat In section 9 of the principal Act, in the proviso to sub-section (1), for the figures and words "33 per cent." where they occur at two places the figures and words "49 per cent." shall be substituted.
Bombay Land Improvement Schemes (Gujarat Amendment) Act, 1963_Section 5--> State(s): Gujarat In section 10 of the principal Act, for the words "Official Gazette" the word "village" shall be substituted.
Bombay Land Improvement Schemes (Gujarat Amendment) Act, 1963_Section 6--> State(s): Gujarat In section 11 of the principal Act, in sub-section (3), for the words "twenty-one days" the words "seven days" and for the words "Official Gazette" the word "village" shall be substituted.
Bombay Land Improvement Schemes (Gujarat Amendment) Act, 1963_Section 7--> State(s): Gujarat In section 25A of the principal Act, in sub-section (1), after the words "is of opinion" the words "that a scheme is necessary in the interest of the public or" shall be inserted. 
