Bombay Industrial Relations (Gujarat Amendment) Act, 1972_Section Preamble--> State(s): Gujarat An Act further to amend the Bombay Industrial Relations Act, 1946. It is hereby enacted in the Twenty-third Year of the Republic of India at follows:-
Bombay Industrial Relations (Gujarat Amendment) Act, 1972_Section 1--> State(s): Gujarat (1) This Act may be called the Bombay Industrial Relations (Gujarat Amendment) Act, 1972. (2) It shall come into force on such date as the State Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, appoint.
Bombay Industrial Relations (Gujarat Amendment) Act, 1972_Section 2--> State(s): Gujarat In the Bombay Industrial Relations Act, 1946 (hereinafter referred to as "the principal Act"), in section 27A, for the words and figures "sections 32 and 33" the words, figures and letter "sections 32, 33 and 33A" shall be substituted.
Bombay Industrial Relations (Gujarat Amendment) Act, 1972_Section 3--> State(s): Gujarat In section 30 of the principal Act, for the words "The following shall be entitled to appear or act" the words, figures and letter "Subject to the provisions of section 33A, the following shall be entitled to appear or act" shall be substituted.
Bombay Industrial Relations (Gujarat Amendment) Act, 1972_Section 4--> State(s): Gujarat In section 32 of the principal Act, in the proviso,- (a) for the words "Provided that" the words, figures and letter "Provided that, subject to the provisions of section 33A," shall be substituted; (b) after the words "any proceedings" the brackets and words "(not being a proceeding before a Labour Court or the Industrial Court in which the legality or propriety of an order of dismissal, discharge, removal, retrenchment, termination of service or suspension of an employee is under consideration)" shall be inserted.
Bombay Industrial Relations (Gujarat Amendment) Act, 1972_Section 5--> State(s): Gujarat In section 33 of the principal Act,- (a) in clause (b), the words and figures "or for deciding any industrial dispute referred to it under section 72" shall be deleted; (b) in the second proviso,- (i) for the words "Provided further that" the words, figures and letter, "Provided further that, subject to the provisions of section 33A," shall be substituted; (ii) after the words "any proceeding under this Act" the brackets and words "(not being a proceeding before a Labour Court or the Industrial Court in which the legality or propriety of an order of dismissal, discharge, removal, retrenchment, termination of service or suspension of an employee is under consideration)" shall be inserted.
Bombay Industrial Relations (Gujarat Amendment) Act, 1972_Section 6--> State(s): Gujarat In the principal Act, after section 33, the following section shall be inserted, namely:- "33A. persons who may appear in proceeding in which there is dispute between employees and employees. - (1) In any dispute between the employees and employees referred to arbitration of a Labour Court or the Industrial Court under section 72, all persons, who are parties to the dispute, shall be entitled to appear and act in the proceedings before such Court: Provided that, where the number of employees on either side exceeds five, then such employees shall elect, in the manner prescribed, two persons from amongst themselves to appear and act for them. (2) If a Representative Union desires to be heard in respect of such dispute, it may, on application made to the Court, also be heard by such Court.".
Bombay Industrial Relations (Gujarat Amendment) Act, 1972_Section 7--> State(s): Gujarat In section 34 of the principal Act, in sub-section (6), in the proviso, in clause (b), for the words "except at the request of the union" the words "except after consultation with such union" shall be substituted. 
