Bombay Motor Vehicles Tax (Gujarat Amendment) Act, 1982_Section Preamble--> State(s): Gujarat An Act further to amend the Bombay Motor Vehicles Tax Act, 1958. It is hereby enacted in the Thirty-third Year of the Republic of India as follows:-
Bombay Motor Vehicles Tax (Gujarat Amendment) Act, 1982_Section 1--> State(s): Gujarat (1) This Act may be called the Bombay Motor Vehicles Tax (Gujarat Amendment) Act, 1982. (2) It shall come into force on such date as the State Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, appoint.
Bombay Motor Vehicles Tax (Gujarat Amendment) Act, 1982_Section 2--> State(s): Gujarat In the Bombay Motor Vehicles Tax Act, 1958 (hereinafter referred to as "the principal Act"), for section 3A, the following sections shall be substituted, namely:- "3A. Levy of additional tax. - (1) On and from the first day of April, 1982 there shall be levied and collected, on all omnibuses which are exclusively used or kept for use in the State as contract carriages (hereinafter in this section referred to as "the omnibus") a tax (hereinafter referred to as "the additional tax") in addition to the tax levied under section 3, at the rates fixed by the State Government, by notification in the Official Gazette, but not exceeding the maximum rates specified in the table below: TABLE Description of an omnibus Maximum rate of additional tax 1 2 A. Ordinary omnibuses. (i) Monthly rate of Rs. 240 per passenger permitted to be carried. (ii) Weekly rate of Rs. 80 per passenger permitted to be carried. (iii) Daily rate of Rs. 16 per passenger permitted to be carried. B. Luxury or tourist omnibuses. (i) Monthly rate of Rs. 360 per passenger permitted to be carried. (ii) Weekly rate of Rs. 120 per passenger permitted to be carried. (iii) Daily rate of Rs. 24 per passenger permitted to be carried. (2) The additional tax levied under sub-section (1) shall be paid in advance by every registered owner or any person having possession or control of the omnibus- (i) monthly at the rates specified in the table in sub-section (1), or (ii) for any period less than a month, weekly or daily at the rates specified in the table in sub-section (1). (3) Except as otherwise provided in sub-sections (1) and (2) the provisions of this Act and the rules made thereunder shall, so far as may be, apply in relation to the additional tax leviable under sub-section (1) as they apply in relation to the tax leviable under section 3. 3B. Levy of life time tax. - (1) If a registered owner of any motor vehicle not exceeding 75 KG in weight, unladen, specified in clause I of Class A in part I of the First Schedule or of any motor vehicle of like description falling under Part XI of the said Schedule makes an application in the prescribed form in that behalf to the taxation authority, then notwithstanding anything contained in section 3 or 3A it shall be lawful to levy and collect on such motor vehicle such sum as tax as is equivalent to the aggregate of the amount of tax leviable under sections 3 and 3A for a period of seven years at the rate existing on the date of receipt of such application. (2) Upon the levy and collection of a sum as tax in respect of a motor vehicle-under sub-section (1) such motor vehicle shall cease to be liable to tax under this Act.".
Bombay Motor Vehicles Tax (Gujarat Amendment) Act, 1982_Section 3--> State(s): Gujarat In the principal Act, in section 4,- (1) in sub-section (1) for the words "of a motor vehicle", the words brackets, figure and letters, "of a motor vehicle to which sub-section (1AA) does not apply" shall be substituted; (2) after sub-section (1), the following sub-section shall be inserted, namely:- "(1AA) The tax leviable under section 3 shall be paid in advance by every registered owner, or any person having possession or control, of a motor vehicle specified in clause I of Class A in Part I of the First Schedule or a motor vehicle of a like description falling under Part II of the said Schedule, annually, at the rates fixed by the State Government under section 3 (hereinafter referred to as the "annual rate"): Provided that where the tax is leviable for any period less than a year, such tax shall be paid in advance at the annual rate less one-twelfth of the annual rate for every complete calendar month which has expired during such year."; (3) in sub-section (2) for the words, brackets and figure "under sub-section (1)", the words "under this section" shall be substituted.
Bombay Motor Vehicles Tax (Gujarat Amendment) Act, 1982_Section 4--> State(s): Gujarat In the principal Act, in the First Schedule, in Part I, in Class A, in clause VI, in sub-clause (i), for items (d) and (c), the following items shall Schedule to be substituted, namely:- "(d) Vehicles exceeding 2250 KG in weight, unladen, constructed or adapted to carry not more than nine persons excluding the driver. 450 (e) Vehicles exceeding 2250 KG in weight, unladen, in which the total number of persons permitted to be carried in accordance with the conditions of permit granted to the owner of the vehicle is more than nine (excluding the driver). Rs. 450/- plus Rs. 10/- for each such number in excess of nine.". 
