Bombay Motor Vehicles Tax (Gujarat Amendment) Act, 1991_Section Preamble--> State(s): Gujarat An Act further to amend the Bombay Motor Vehicles Tax Act, 1958. It is hereby enacted in the Forty-second Year of the Republic of India as follows:-
Bombay Motor Vehicles Tax (Gujarat Amendment) Act, 1991_Section 1--> State(s): Gujarat (1) This Act may be called the Bombay Motor Vehicles Tax (Gujarat Amendment) Act, 1991. (2) It shall come into force on the 1st April, 1991.
Bombay Motor Vehicles Tax (Gujarat Amendment) Act, 1991_Section 2--> State(s): Gujarat In the Bombay Motor Vehicles Tax Act, 1958 (hereinafter referred to as "the principal Act") in section 2,- (1) in clause (5), the following shall be added at the end, namely:- "or, as the case may be, the Motor Vehicles Act, 1988."; (2) in clause (10) for the words and figures "the Motor Vehicles Act, 1939", the words and figures "the Motor Vehicles Act, 1988" shall be substituted.
Bombay Motor Vehicles Tax (Gujarat Amendment) Act, 1991_Section 3--> State(s): Gujarat In the principal Act, in section 3,- (1) in sub-section (1), in the first proviso,- (a) for the words "in the First Schedule", the words, figure and letter "in section 3A or the First Schedule" shall be substituted; (b) for the words and figures "the Motor Vehicles Act, 1939", the words and figures "the Motor Vehicles Act, 1988" shall be substituted; (2) the following sub-section shall be added at the end, namely:- "(3) No tax shall be leviable under sub-section (1) on motor vehicles on which tax is leviable under sub-section (1) of section 3A.".
Bombay Motor Vehicles Tax (Gujarat Amendment) Act, 1991_Section 4--> State(s): Gujarat In the principal Act, for section 3A, the following section shall be substituted, namely:- "3A. Levy and payment of tax on certain omnibuses. -(1) On and from the 1st day of April, 1991, there shall be levied and collected on all omnibuses which are used or kept for use in the State exclusively as contract carriages (hereinafter in this section and sub-section (1A) of section 4 referred to as "the designated omnibuses") a tax at the rates specified in the table below:- TABLE Description of designated omnibuses Rate of tax 1 2 1. Ordinary designated omnibuses Annual rate of Rs. 1,800 per passenger permitted to be carried. 2. Luxury or tourist designated omnibuses Annual rate of Rs. 2,700 per passenger permitted to be carried: Provided that in the case of the designated omnibuses used solely for the purpose of transporting students of educational institutions in the State in connection with any of the activities of such educational institutions a tax shall be levied and collected under sub-section (1) of section 3, and not under this sub-section. (2) (a) The tax leviable under sub-section (1) shall be paid in advance by every registered owner or any person having possession or control of the designated omnibuses "either annually at the annual rate specified in the Table appearing in sub-section (1) or in monthly instalments of one-twelfth of the annual rate. (b) (i) The annual payment of tax shall be made at any time before the beginning of the year to which the tax relates, (ii) The payment of monthly instalment of tax shall be made before the beginning of each month to which the monthly instalment of the tax relates. (3) Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section (1),- (a) the amount of tax leviable in respect of the designated omnibus brought for use in the State for a temporary period not exceeding seven days shall be Rs. 72 per passenger permitted to be carried if it is an ordinary designated omnibus and Rs. 108 per passenger permitted to be carried if it is a luxury or tourist designated omnibus; (b) where such designated omnibus is to be used or kept for use in the State for a period exceeding seven days but not exceeding one year, the tax shall be leviable on such vehicle at the rate of one-twelfth of the annual rate of tax for each month or part thereof; (c) the tax leviable under this sub-section shall be paid within such period and in such manner as may be prescribed. (4) In calculating the amount of tax due under this section the fraction of a rupee less than fifty paise shall be taken as fifty paise, and the fraction of a rupee exceeding fifty paise shall be taken as a rupee. (5) Where the registered owner or any person having possession or control of an omnibus who has paid tax under this section proves to the satisfaction of the Taxation Authority that the designated omnibus in respect of which the tax has been paid, has not been used for a continuous period of not less than two months, he shall be entitled to the refund of an amount equal to one-twelfth of the annual rate of the tax paid in respect of such omnibus for each complete month of the period for which the tax has been paid. (6) Except as otherwise provided in sub-sections (2), (3), (4) and (5), the provisions of this Act and the rules made thereunder shall, so far as may be, apply in relation to the tax leviable under sub-section (1) as they apply in relation to the tax leviable under sub-section (1) of section 3.".
Bombay Motor Vehicles Tax (Gujarat Amendment) Act, 1991_Section 5--> State(s): Gujarat In the principal Act, in section 4, (1) in sub-section (1A), in clause (a), for the words "a transport vehicle", the words "a transport vehicle not being the designated omnibus" shall be substituted; (2) for the marginal note, the following marginal note shall be substituted, namely:- "Payment of tax levied under section 3.".
Bombay Motor Vehicles Tax (Gujarat Amendment) Act, 1991_Section 6--> State(s): Gujarat In the principal Act, in section 6, in sub-section (3), for the words and figures "Chapter VIII of the Motor Vehicles Act, 1939", the words and figures Chapter XI of the Motor Vehicles Act, 1988" shall be substituted.
Bombay Motor Vehicles Tax (Gujarat Amendment) Act, 1991_Section 7--> State(s): Gujarat In the principal Act, in section 23, in sub-section (2), for clause (b), the following clause shall be substituted, namely:- "(b) to prescribe the period within which and the manner in which the tax under sub-section (5) of section 3A and under sub-section (7) of section 4 shall be paid;".
Bombay Motor Vehicles Tax (Gujarat Amendment) Act, 1991_Section 8--> State(s): Gujarat In the principal Act, in the First Schedule, in Part I, under the heading "A. Motor vehicles fitted solely with pneumatic tyres", in Explanation II, for the words, brackets and figures "in the proviso to sub-section (7) of section 24 of the Motor Vehicles Act, 1939", the words, brackets and figures "in the proviso to sub-section (1) of section 41 of the Motor Vehicles Act, 1988 shall be substituted.
Bombay Motor Vehicles Tax (Gujarat Amendment) Act, 1991_Section 9--> State(s): Gujarat In the principal Act, in the Second Schedule, in Part I, under the heading "A. Motor vehicles fitted solely with pneumatic tyres-", in Explanation II, "for the words, brackets and figures "in the proviso to sub-section (1) of section 24 of the Motor Vehicles Act, 1939", the words, brackets and figures "in the proviso to sub-section (1) of section 41 of the Motor Vehicles Act, 1988" shall be substituted.
Bombay Motor Vehicles Tax (Gujarat Amendment) Act, 1991_Section 10--> State(s): Gujarat In the principal Act, in the Third Schedule, in Part I, under the heading "A. Motor vehicles fitted solely with pneumatic tyres-", in Explanation II, for the words, brackets and figures "in the proviso to sub-section (1) of section 24 of the Motor Vehicles Act, 1939", the words, brackets and figures "in the proviso to sub-section (1) of section 41 of the Motor Vehicles Act, 1988" shall be substituted. 
