Bombay Corneal Grafting (Gujarat Amendment) Act, 1961_Section Preamble--> State(s): Gujarat An Act to amend the Bombay Corneal Grafting Act, 1957 It is hereby enacted in the Twelfth Year of the Republic of India as follows:-
Bombay Corneal Grafting (Gujarat Amendment) Act, 1961_Section 1--> State(s): Gujarat This Act may be called the Bombay Corneal Grafting (Gujarat Amendment) Act, 1961
Bombay Corneal Grafting (Gujarat Amendment) Act, 1961_Section 2--> State(s): Gujarat In section 2 of the Bombay Corneal Grafting Act, 1957 (hereinafter referred to as "the principal Act"), after clause (b), the following clause shall be inserted, namely:- "(bb) "prescribed" means prescribed by rules made under this Act;"
Bombay Corneal Grafting (Gujarat Amendment) Act, 1961_Section 3--> State(s): Gujarat After section 2 of the principal Act, the following section shall be inserted namely:- "2A. Power to prescribe procedure and conditions for approval of institutions. - The State Government may prescribe the procedure according to which and the conditions subject to which a hospital or a medical or teaching institution for therapeutic purposes shall be approved under clause (a) of section 2 as an approved institution for the purposes of this Act. It may also prescribe the circumstances in which an approval accorded may be withdrawn.".
Bombay Corneal Grafting (Gujarat Amendment) Act, 1961_Section 4--> State(s): Gujarat After section 6 of the principal Act, the following section shall be inserted, namely:- "6A. Power to make rules. - (1) The State Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, make rules for carrying out the purposes of this Act. (2) In particular and without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing power, such rules may be made to provide for all matters expressly allowed by this Act to be prescribed by rules. (3) The power to make rules conferred by this section is subject to the condition of the rules being made after previous publication. (4) All rules made under this section shall be laid for not less than thirty days before the State Legislature as soon as possible after they are made, and shall be subject to such modifications as the Legislature may make during the session in which they are so laid, or the session immediately following. (5) Any modifications so made by the State Legislature shall be published in the Official Gazette and shall thereupon take effect." 
