Bombay Stamp (Gujarat Amendment) Act, 2001_Section Preamble--> State(s): Gujarat An Act further to amend the Bombay Stamp Act, 1958. It is hereby enacted in the Fifty-second Year of the Republic of India as follows:-
Bombay Stamp (Gujarat Amendment) Act, 2001_Section 1--> State(s): Gujarat (1) This Act may be called the Bombay Stamp (Gujarat Amendment) Act, 2001. (2) It shall come into force on the 1st September, 2001.
Bombay Stamp (Gujarat Amendment) Act, 2001_Section 2--> State(s): Gujarat In the Bombay Stamp Act, 1958 (hereinafter referred to as "the principal Act"), in section 2, in clause (g)- (i) in sub-clause (iii), the word "or" shall be deleted; (ii) in sub-clause (iv), for the words "amalgamation of companies", the words "reconstruction or amalgamation of companies, or" shall be substituted; (iii) after sub-clause (iv), the following sub-clause shall be inserted, namely:- "(v) any writing or letter of allotment in respect of the premises, given to its members or allottee by a co-operative society registered or deemed to have been registered under the Gujarat Co-operative Societies Act, 1961 or a corporation or an association formed and registered under the Bombay Non-Trading Corporation Act, 1959 or the Gujarat Ownership Flat Act, 1973, as the case may be.".
Bombay Stamp (Gujarat Amendment) Act, 2001_Section 3--> State(s): Gujarat In the principal Act, in section 32A, in sub-section (1), after the words "shall be accompanied by a true copy thereof", the words, "and the Statement in such form as may be prescribed by rules" shall be inserted.
Bombay Stamp (Gujarat Amendment) Act, 2001_Section 4--> State(s): Gujarat In the principal Act, for section 48, the following section shall be substituted, namely:- "48. Period within which application for relief under section 47 to be made. - The application for relief under section 47 shall be made within the following period, that is to say,- (a) in the cases mentioned in sub-clause (5) of clause (c), within six months from the date of execution of the instruments; (b) in the case of an instrument substituted by another and not presented for cancellation, within six months from the date of execution of the substituting instrument; (c) in all other cases, within six months from the date of purchase of impressed stamps.".
Bombay Stamp (Gujarat Amendment) Act, 2001_Section 5--> State(s): Gujarat In the principal Act, after section 52B, the following section shall be inserted, namely:- "52C. Invalidation of stamps and savings. - Notwithstanding anything contained in sections 47, 50, 51 and 52,- (a) any impressed stamps which have been purchased on or after the date of commencement of the Bombay Stamp (Gujarat Amendment) Act, 2001 (hereinafter referred to as "the said date") shall be used or presented for claiming allowance within a period of six months from the date of purchase. Any such stamps which have not been used or no allowance has been claimed in respect thereof within the period of six months from the date of purchase shall be rendered invalid; (b) any impressed stamps which have been purchased but have not been used or no allowance has been claimed in respect thereof before the said date, may be used or presented for claiming the allowance under the relevant provisions of the Act within a period of six months from the said date. The stamps which have not been used or presented within the aforesaid period of six months shall be rendered invalid.".
Bombay Stamp (Gujarat Amendment) Act, 2001_Section 6--> State(s): Gujarat In the principal Act, in Schedule I,- (1) in article 5, after clause (g), the following clause shall be inserted, namely:- "(ga) if relating to giving authority or power to a promoter or a developer; by whatever name called, for construction on; or development of, or sale or transfer (in any manner whatsoever) of, any immovable property. One rupee for every hundred rupees or part thereof of the market value of the property which is the subject matter of such agreement: Provided that the provisions of section 32A shall, mutatis mutandis, apply to such agreement, memorandum or records thereof or as they apply to an instrument under that section: Provided further that if the proper stamp duty is paid under clause (g) of article 45 on a power of attorney executed between the same parties in respect of the same property, then the stamp duty under this article shall be fifty rupees."; (2) in article 20,- (i) in clause (a), for the words and figures "under article No. 56.", the words, and figures "under article No. 56, relating to immovable property" shall be substituted; (ii) before clause (a), the following clause shall be inserted, namely:- "(aa) CONVEYANCE, not being a transfer charged or exempted under article 56, relating to movable property. Two rupees for every hundred rupees or part thereof of the amount of the consideration for such conveyance or, as the case may be, the market value of the property which is the subject matter of such conveyance whichever is greater."; (iii) after clause (c), the following clause shall be inserted, namely:- "(cc) CONVEYANCE, (not being a transfer charged or exempted under article No. 56) if relating to both movable and immovable property. The stamp duty as is payable under clause (a) and (aa), as the case may be."; (iv) in clause (d), for the words "amalgamation", the words "reconstruction or amalgamation" shall be substituted; (3) in article 27,- (i) in clause (b), for item (ii), the following shall be substituted namely:- "(ii) if possession is not so given. Subject to maximum of two lakhs rupees, two rupees for every hundred rupees or part thereof, for the amount of the further charge secured by such instrument"; (ii) clause (c) shall be deleted; (4) in article 36,- (i) for clause (b), the following clause shall be substituted, namely:- "(b) when possession of the property or any part of the property comprised in such deed is not given or not agreed to be given. Subject to maximum of rupees two lakhs, two rupees for every hundred rupees or part thereof for the amount secured by such deed."; (ii) Explanation II and Explanation III shall be deleted; (5) in article 45,- (i) for clause (g), the following clause shall be substituted, namely:- "(g) When given to a promoter or developer; by whatever name called, for construction on; or development of, or sale or transfer (in any manner whatsoever) of, any immovable property. One rupee for every hundred rupees or part thereof of the market value of the property which is the subject matter of such power of attorney: Provided that the provisions of section 32A shall mutatis mutandis apply to such an instrument of power of attorney as they apply to a conveyance under that section: Provided further that when proper stamp duty is paid under clause (ga) of article 5, on an agreement or records thereof or memorandum of an agreement executed between the same parties and in respect of same property, the duty chargeable under this clause shall be rupees one hundred."; (ii) in Explanation III for the word, bracket and letter "clause (g)" the word, bracket and letter "clause (f)" shall be substituted. 
