Bombay Primary Education (Gujarat Amendment) Act, 2003_Section Preamble--> State(s): Gujarat An Act further to amend the Bombay Primary Education Act, 1947. It is hereby enacted in the Fifty-fourth Year of the Republic of India as follows:-
Bombay Primary Education (Gujarat Amendment) Act, 2003_Section 1--> State(s): Gujarat (1) This Act may be called the Bombay Primary Education (Gujarat Amendment) Act, 2003. (2) It shall be deemed to have come into force on the 11th June, 1998.
Bombay Primary Education (Gujarat Amendment) Act, 2003_Section 2--> State(s): Gujarat In the Bombay Primary Education Act, 1947 (hereinafter referred to as "the principal Act"), in section 2,- (i) after clause (5), the following clause shall be inserted, namely:- "(5A) "Authorised Officer" means such officer as the State Government may, by order appoint;"; (ii) after clause (19), the following clauses shall be added, namely:- "(20) "Teacher" means primary school teacher; (21) "Vidyasahayak" means a person appointed on contract to assist a teacher and pupils (students) in a primary school under the supervision and control of the head-teacher.".
Bombay Primary Education (Gujarat Amendment) Act, 2003_Section 3--> State(s): Gujarat In the principal Act, in section 13, in sub-section (2), after clause (d), the following clause shall be inserted, namely:- "(dd) to maintain such number of Vidyasahayaks as may, in the opinion of the State Government or an authorised officer, as the case may be, necessary;".
Bombay Primary Education (Gujarat Amendment) Act, 2003_Section 4--> State(s): Gujarat In the principal Act, in section 17, in sub-section (1), after clause (c), the following clause shall be inserted, namely:- "(cc) to maintain such number of Vidyasahayaks as may, in the opinion of the State Government, be necessary;".
Bombay Primary Education (Gujarat Amendment) Act, 2003_Section 5--> State(s): Gujarat In the principal Act, in section 20,- (1) after sub-section (1), the following sub-section shall be inserted, namely:- "(1A) Every district school board, and every authorised municipality and recognised private primary school shall, with the approval of the State Government or of an authorised officer, maintain such number of Vidyasahayaks as may, in the opinion of the State Government or an authorised officer, as the case may be, necessary.". (2) after sub-section (4), the following new sub-sections shall be added, namely:- "(5) The State Government may constitute State Level Committee, namely Vidyasahayak Committee to exercise such powers and perform such functions as may be prescribed. (6) The State Government may constitute Village Education Committee and Village School Construction Committee to exercise such powers and perform such functions as may be prescribed.".
Bombay Primary Education (Gujarat Amendment) Act, 2003_Section 6--> State(s): Gujarat In the principal Act, after section 23, the following new section shall be inserted, namely:- "23A. Selection of Vidyasahayaks. - (1) For selection of Vidyasaliayaks there shall be a Selection Committee- (a) for every district, consisting of such persons as may be prescribed; (b) for the area of every authorised municipality, consisting of such persons as may be prescribed; (c) for recognised private primary schools consisting of such persons as may be prescribed; (2) The qualifications for appointment of Vidyasahayak shall be such as may be prescribed. (3) The Selection Committee shall select candidates for appointment as Vidyasahayak on such criteria and in such manner, as may be prescribed. (4) A District Primary Education Officer or an Administrative Officer of the Municipal School Board or the managing trustee in private primary grant-in-aid school with the approval of the District Primary Education Officer, as the case may be, may make appointments of the candidates in accordance with the directions given by the Selection Committee and subject to such terms and conditions as laid down in Vidyasahayak Scheme as may he prescribed. (5) No person shall be appointed as Vidyasahayak unless he has entered into a contract with the District Primary Education Officer or the Administrative Officer of the Municipal School Board or the management in case of recognised grant-in-aid private primary school with the approval of the District Primary Education Officer/District Education Officer, as the case may be in such form and subject to such terms and conditions, as may be prescribed. (6) The duties of Vidyasahayak shall be such as may be prescribed. (7) The provisions of this section shall have effect, notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in sections 20 and 23 of this Act and in any provision of the Gujarat Panchayats Act, 1993.
Bombay Primary Education (Gujarat Amendment) Act, 2003_Section 7--> State(s): Gujarat In the principal Act, in section 63,- (1) in Sub-section (2), after clause (fa), the following clauses shall be inserted, namely:- "(fb) the powers and functions to be performed by the State Level Committee, namely Vidyasahayak Committee; (fc) the powers and functions to be performed by the Village Education Committee and Village School Construction Committee; (fd) the persons of which Selection Committees shall consist of; (fe) the qualifications for appointment as Vidyasahayak; (ff) the manner and criteria for selection of candidates for appointment as Vidyasahayak; (fg) making of Vidyasahayak Scheme from time to time; (fh) the form of contract of appointment to be entered into by a Vidyasahayak and terms and conditions of such appointment to be contained in such contract; (fi) the duties of Vidyasahayak;". (2) to sub-section (3), the following proviso shall be added, namely:- "Provided that if the State Government is satisfied that circumstances exist which render it necessary to take immediate action, it may dispense with previous publication of any rules to be made under this section.". 
