Bombay District Municipal and Municipal Boroughs Acts (Gujarat Amendment) Act, 1961_Section Preamble--> State(s): Gujarat An Act further to amend the Bombay District Municipal Act, 1901 and the Bombay Municipal Boroughs Act, 1925 and those Acts as applied to the Saurashtra area and the Bombay Municipal Boroughs Act, 1925 as applied to the Kutch area of the Gujarat State. It is hereby enacted in the Twelfth Year of the Republic of India as follows:-
Bombay District Municipal and Municipal Boroughs Acts (Gujarat Amendment) Act, 1961_Section 1--> State(s): Gujarat This Act may be called the Bombay District Municipal and Municipal Boroughs Acts (Gujarat Amendment) Act, 1961.
Bombay District Municipal and Municipal Boroughs Acts (Gujarat Amendment) Act, 1961_Section 2--> State(s): Gujarat In the Bombay Municipal Act, 1901, and in that Act as adapted and applied to the Saurashtra area of the Gujarat State, after section 52 the following new section shall be inserted, namely:- "52A. Power of Municipality to extend service to persons or properties outside its limits when so authorised by Government. - (1) Notwithstanding anything contained in section 52 or any other provision of this Act the State Government may, by general or special order authorise any Municipality to, and therupon such municipality may, extend to persons or properties beyond the municipal district any service provided by the municipality within the said district and specified in the order. (2) No such extension shall be effected unless the municipality is satisfied that it will not render the service within the district inadequate and the extension shall be on such terms and conditions as shall be prescribed by bye-laws made in this behalf."
Bombay District Municipal and Municipal Boroughs Acts (Gujarat Amendment) Act, 1961_Section 3--> State(s): Gujarat In the Bombay Municipal Boroughs Act, 1925, and in that Act as adapted and applied to the Saurashtra area of the Gujarat State and in that Act as extended to the Kutch area of the Gujarat State, after section 66 the following new section shall be inserted, namely:- "66A. Power of Municipality to extend service to persons or properties outside its limits when so authorised by Government. - (1) Notwithstanding anything contained in section 66 or any other provision of this Act the State Government may, by general or special order authorise any Municipality to, and therupon such municipality may, extend to persons or properties beyond the municipal borough any service provided by the municipality within the said borough and specified in the order. (2) No such extension shall be effected unless the municipality is satisfied that it will not render the service within the borough inadequate, and the extension shall be on such terms and conditions as shall be prescribed by bye-laws made in this behalf." 
