Bombay Public Conveyances (Gujarat Amendment) Act, 1963_Section Preamble--> State(s): Gujarat An Act further to amend the Bombay Public Conveyances Act, 1920. It is hereby enacted in the Fourteenth Year of the Republic of India as follows:-
Bombay Public Conveyances (Gujarat Amendment) Act, 1963_Section 1--> State(s): Gujarat This Act may be called the Bombay Public Conveyances (Gujarat Amendment) Act, 1963.
Bombay Public Conveyances (Gujarat Amendment) Act, 1963_Section 2--> State(s): Gujarat After section 5 of the Bombay Public Conveyances Act, 1920 (hereinafter referred to as "the principal Act"), the following section shall be inserted, namely:- "5A. Power of Commissioner to limit number of public conveyances. - (1) The Commissioner of Police may, by an order notified in the Official Gazette, limit the number of any class of public conveyances for which license may be granted in any area, having regard to the adequacy of public conveyances of the same or any other class operating or likely to operate in the area in the near future, or to the safety or convenience of the public in the light of traffic conditions in the area. (2) Any order made under sub-section (1) may be suspended, cancelled or modified by the State Government.".
Bombay Public Conveyances (Gujarat Amendment) Act, 1963_Section 3--> State(s): Gujarat For section 22 of the principal Act, the following section shall be substituted, namely:- "22. Keeping or letting for hire public conveyance without license. - (1) Any person who shall keep or let for hire any public conveyance without a license granted by the Commissioner of Police in this behalf and for, the time being in force shall be punishable:- (i) for the first offence with fine which may extend to fifty rupees: Provided that in the absence of special and adequate reasons to be mentioned in the judgment of the Court such fine shall not be less than fifteen rupees. (ii) for the subsequent offences with fine which may extend to one hundred rupees: Provided that in the absence of special and adequate reasons to be mentioned in the judgment of the Court such fine, shall not be less than fifty rupees. (2) Any person who shall keep or let for hire any public conveyance on which the number and other particulars required by section 3 are not clearly inscribed in such manner as the Commissioner of Police directs shall be punishable with fine which may extend to one hundred rupees. (3) If any person commits an offence under sub-section (1) any Court trying such offence may direct that the conveyance in respect of which the Court is satisfied that the offence has been committed shall be forfeited to Government.". 
