Bombay Motor Vehicles Tax (Gujarat Amendment) Act, 1986_Section Preamble--> State(s): Gujarat An Act further to amend the Bombay Motor Vehicles Tax Act, 1958. It is hereby enacted in the Thirty-seventh Year of the Republic of India as follows:-
Bombay Motor Vehicles Tax (Gujarat Amendment) Act, 1986_Section 1--> State(s): Gujarat (1) This Act may be called the Bombay Motor Vehicles Tax (Gujarat Amendment) Act, 1986. (2) It shall come into force on such date as the State Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, appoint.
Bombay Motor Vehicles Tax (Gujarat Amendment) Act, 1986_Section 2--> State(s): Gujarat In the Bombay Motor Vehicles Tax Act, 1958, for the First Schedule, the following shall be substituted, namely:- "FIRST SCHEDULE (See section 3)  Maximum annual rate of tax Rs. Part-I-Motor Vehicles using motor spirit A. Motor vehicles fitted solely with pneumatic tyres- I. Motor cycles and tricycles (including motor-scooters and cycles with attachment for propelling the same by mechanical power)- (i) owned by an individual, a local authority, a public trust, a University or an educational or social welfare institution.- (a) Cycles not exceeding 60 EG in weight, unladen 60 (b) Cycles exceeding 50 EG in weight, unladen but not exceeding 100 EG in weight, unladen 120 (c) Cycles exceeding 100 KG in weight, unladen 150 (d) Tricycles 150 (e) Cycles tricycles used for drawing a trailer or side-car 50 in addition to the rates specified above; (ii) owned by a person other than an individual, a local authority, a public trust, a University or an educational or social welfare institution. Twice the rates specified above. II. Motor vehicles not exceeding 260 KG in weight unladen adapted and used for invalids 20 III. Motor vehicles (including tricycles) used for the carriage of goods or materials.- (a) Vehicles the registered laden weight of which does not exceed 750 KG 350 (b) Vehicles the registered laden weight of which exceeds 750 KG but does not exceed 1500 KG 700 (c) Vehicles the registered laden weight of which exceeds 1500 KG but does not exceed 3000 KG 1000 (d) Vehicles the registered laden weight of which exceeds 3000 KG but does not exceed 4500 KG 1200 (e) Vehicles the registered laden weight of which exceeds 4500 KG but does not exceed 6000 KG 1500 (f) Vehicles the registered laden weight of which exceeds 6000 KG but does not exceed 7500 KG 2000 (g) Vehicles the registered laden weight of which exceeds 7500 KG: The rate specified in (f) above plus Rs. 125/- for every 250 KG or part thereof in excess of 7500 KG: Provided that where a tax on motor vehicles is levied by any local authority the maximum annual rates of tax under this clause for motor vehicles registered for use solely within the limits of such local authority shall,- (i) in cases where such motor vehicles are wholly or partially exempted by such local authority from the tax levied by such local authority, be the rates specified in this clause; (ii) in any other case, be two-thirds of the rates so specified. IV. Motor vehicles (including tricycles) plying for hire and used fox the carriage of passengers- (a) Vehicles licensed to carry in all not more than three passengers 400 (b) Vehicles licensed to carry in all four passengers 900 (c) Vehicles licensed to carry more than four passengers The rate specified in (b) above plus Rs. 100 for every passenger in addition to four passengers which the vehicle is so licensed to carry. Provided that where a tax on motor vehicles is levied by any local authority the maximum annual rates of tax under this clause for motor vehicles registered for use solely within the limits of such local authority shall.- (i) in cases where such motor vehicles are wholly or partially exempted by such local authority from the tax levied by such local authority, be the rates specified in this clause: (ii) in any other case, be two-thirds of the rates so specified. V. Breakdown Vans used for towing disabled vehicles 500 VI. Motor vehicles other than those liable to tax under the foregoing provisions of this Schedule,- (i) owned by an individual, a local authority, a public trust, a University or an educational or social welfare institution- (a) Vehicle not exceeding 750 KG in weight, unladen. 300 (b) Vehicles exceeding 750 KG in weight, unladen but not exceeding 1500 KG in weight, unladen 450 (c) Vehicles exceeding 1500 KG in weight, unladen but not exceeding 2250 KG in weight, unladen 500 (d) Vehicles exceeding 2250 KG in weight, unladen, in which the total number of seats (including that of the driver) and of the standing persons permitted to be carried in accordance with the conditions of permit, granted to the owner of the vehicle does not exceed twenty 1500 (e) Vehicles exceeding 2250 KG in weight, unladen, in which the total number of seats (including that of the driver) and of the standing persons permitted to be carried in accordance with the conditions of permit granted to the owner of vehicle exceeds twenty. 1500 plus Rs. 20/- for each such number in excess of twenty. (ii) owned by a person other than an individual, a local authority a public trust, a University or an educational or social welfare institution. Twice the rates specified above. VII. Additional tax payable in respect of motor vehicles used for drawing trailers- (i) for each trailer when the trailer is used for the carriage of goods The rates specified in clause III in respect of motor vehicles used for the carriage of goods or materials. (ii) for each trailer when the trailer is used for the carriage of passengers The rates specified in clause IV in respect of motor vehicles plying for hire and used for the carriage of passengers. (iii) for each trailer when the trailer is used for any other purpose: 150 Provided that two or more vehicles shall not be chargeable under this clause in respect of the same trailer. VIII. Motor Vehicles falling under clause I or clause IV or clause VI and manufactured out of India and imported into India after the 31st March, 1957. Twice the rates specified in clause I, clause IV or, as the case may be, clause VI. Explanation I.-For the purpose of clause I and clause VI, (1) "educational institution" shall mean such educational institution as is recognised by the State Government by order notified in the Official Gazette, in this behalf; (2) "local authority" shall means any municipal corporation, municipality, Cantonment Board or Panchayat constituted under any law for the time being in force in the State of Gujarat; (3) "public trust" shall mean a public trust registered under the Bombay Public Trust Act, 1950 as in force in the State of Gujarat; (4) "social welfare institution" shall mean any institution engaged in any activity conducive to the welfare of the general public and recognised by the State Government by order notified in the Official Gazette, for the purposes of those clauses; (5) "University" shall mean a University established by or under any law for the time being in force in the State of Gujarat. Explanation II.-If a motor vehicle is jointly owned by more persons than one, then notwithstanding anything contained in the proviso to sub-section (1) of section 24 of the Motor Vehicles Act, 1939, such motor vehicle shall, for purposes of clause I and clause VI, be deemed to be owned by a person other than an individual. B. Motor vehicles other than those fitted solely with pneumatic tyres. The rates shown in class A plus 50 per centum. C. Dealers in, or manufacturers of, motor vehicles- For a general licence in respect of each motor vehicles 150 Part-II Motor vehicles using fuel other than more spirit. The rate shown in Part I plus a surcharge of 50 per centum on all or any class of motor vehicles mentioned therein". 
