Bombay Weights and Measures (Enforcement) (Gujarat Amendment) Act, 1967_Section Preamble--> State(s): Gujarat An Act further to amend the Bombay Weights and Measures (Enforcement) Act, 1958. It is hereby enacted in the Nineteenth Year of the Republic of India as follows:-
Bombay Weights and Measures (Enforcement) (Gujarat Amendment) Act, 1967_Section 1--> State(s): Gujarat This Act may be called the Bombay Weights and Measures (Enforcement) (Gujarat Amendment) Act, 1967.
Bombay Weights and Measures (Enforcement) (Gujarat Amendment) Act, 1967_Section 2--> State(s): Gujarat In section 2 of the Bombay Weights and Measures (Enforcement) Act, 1958 (hereinafter referred to as "the principal Act")- (a) after clause (g), the following clause shall be inserted, namely:- "(gg) "sealed package or container" means a closed packet, bottle, casket, tin, barrel, receptacle, bag, sack, wrapper or any other thing in which any article it placed or packed, and which is intended to be sold with its contents, without any weighment or measurement of such contents at the time of time of sale;"; (b) in clause (ii),- (i) in paragraph (b), after the word "transaction" the word "or" shall be inserted, and (ii) after paragraph (b), the following paragraph shall be inserted, namely:- "(c) the assessment of any work done or services rendered, otherwise than in relation to research or scientific studies or in individual households for household purposes;".
Bombay Weights and Measures (Enforcement) (Gujarat Amendment) Act, 1967_Section 3--> State(s): Gujarat After section 14 of the principal Act, the following section shall be inserted, namely:- "14A. Prohibition of quoting price etc. otherwise than in terms of standard weight or measure. - No person shall, in any transaction for trade or commerce, quote the price, or express the quantity, of any article otherwise than in terms of the standard weight or measure.".
Bombay Weights and Measures (Enforcement) (Gujarat Amendment) Act, 1967_Section 4--> State(s): Gujarat After section 28 of the principal Act, the following section shall be inserted, namely:- "28A. Penalty for contravention of section 14A. - Whoever contravenes the provisions of section 14A shall be punished with fine which may extend to two thousand rupees.".
Bombay Weights and Measures (Enforcement) (Gujarat Amendment) Act, 1967_Section 5--> State(s): Gujarat For section 32 of the principal Act, the following section shall be substituted, namely:- "32. Penalty for delivering article in quantity less than or receiving article in quantity more than the quantity fixed by contract. - (1) Whoever in selling any article by weight or measure delivers or causes to be delivered to the purchaser any quantity of that article, which is less than the quantity fixed by the weight or measure by which the contract or dealing in respect of that article has been made shall, if the deficiency exceeds the prescribed limit of error, be punished with fine which may extend to five hundred rupees. (2) Whoever in buying any article by weight or measure demands or receives or causes to be demanded or received any quantity of that article in excess of the quantity fixed by the weight or measure by which the contract or dealing in respect of that article has been made, shall be punished with fine which may extend to five hundred rupees.". 
