Bombay Industrial Relations (Gujarat Extension and Amendment) Act, 1961_Section Preamble--> State(s): Gujarat An Act to amend the Bombay Industrial Relations Act, 1946 and extend it to the Saurashtra and Kutch areas of the State of Gujarat. It is hereby enacted in the Twelfth Year of the Republic of India as follows:-
Bombay Industrial Relations (Gujarat Extension and Amendment) Act, 1961_Section 1--> State(s): Gujarat This Act may be called the Bombay Industrial Relations (Gujarat Extension and Amendment) Act, 1961.
Bombay Industrial Relations (Gujarat Extension and Amendment) Act, 1961_Section 2--> State(s): Gujarat The Bombay Industrial Relations Act, 1946 as in force in the Bombay area of the State of Gujarat immediately before the commencement of this Act, is hereby extended to the Saurashtra and Kutch areas of the State of Gujarat.
Bombay Industrial Relations (Gujarat Extension and Amendment) Act, 1961_Section 3--> State(s): Gujarat In section 2 of the Bombay Industrial Relations Act, 1946 as extended by section 2 (hereinafter referred to as "the principal Act"),- (a) for sub-section (1), the following shall be substituted, namely:- "(1) This Act extends to the whole of the State of Gujarat."; (b) sub-section (2) shall be renumbered as clause (a) of that sub-section and after clause (a) as so renumbered the following clause shall be inserted, namely:- "(b) In those areas of the State of Gujarat to which it is extended by the Bombay Industrial Relations (Gujarat Extension and Amendment) Act, 1961, it shall come into force on such other date as the State Government may by notification in the Official Gazette specify.".
Bombay Industrial Relations (Gujarat Extension and Amendment) Act, 1961_Section 4--> State(s): Gujarat In section 5 of the principal Act, in sub-section (1), for the words "Bombay area of the State of Gujarat" the words "State of Gujarat" shall be substituted.
Bombay Industrial Relations (Gujarat Extension and Amendment) Act, 1961_Section 5--> State(s): Gujarat In section 6 of the principal Act, in sub-section (1), for the words "Bombay area of the State of Gujarat" the words "State of Gujarat" shall be substituted.
Bombay Industrial Relations (Gujarat Extension and Amendment) Act, 1961_Section 6--> State(s): Gujarat In section 86A of the principal Act, for the words "Bombay area of the State of Gujarat" the words "State of Gujarat" shall be substituted.
Bombay Industrial Relations (Gujarat Extension and Amendment) Act, 1961_Section 7--> State(s): Gujarat In section 86L of the principal Act, in sub-section (1), for the words "Bombay area of the State of Gujarat" the words "State of Gujarat" shall be substituted.
Bombay Industrial Relations (Gujarat Extension and Amendment) Act, 1961_Section 8--> State(s): Gujarat After section 120 of the principal Act, the following new section shall be inserted, namely:- "120A. Provisions of Act XIV of 1947 not to be affected. - Nothing in this Act shall affect any of provisions of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947, and no proceeding shall be held under this Act relating to any matter or dispute which has been referred to and is pending before a Board, a Court for inquiry, a Labour Court or a Tribunal under the said Act.".
Bombay Industrial Relations (Gujarat Extension and Amendment) Act, 1961_Section 9--> State(s): Gujarat In section 123 of the principal Act, after sub-section (3), the following sub-section shall be added, namely:- "(4) All rules made under this section shall be laid for not less than thirty days before the State Legislature as soon as may be after they are made and shall be subject to such modifications as the State Legislature may make during the session in which they are so laid or the session immediately following.". 
