Bombay Motor Vehicles Tax (Gujarat Amendment) Act, 1998_Section Preamble--> State(s): Gujarat An Act further to amend the Bombay Motor Vehicles Tax Act, 1958. It is hereby enacted in the Forty-ninth Year of the Republic of India as follows:-
Bombay Motor Vehicles Tax (Gujarat Amendment) Act, 1998_Section 1--> State(s): Gujarat (1) This Act may be called the Bombay Motor Vehicles Tax (Gujarat Amendment) Act, 1998. (2) It shall come into force on the 1st August, 1998.
Bombay Motor Vehicles Tax (Gujarat Amendment) Act, 1998_Section 2--> State(s): Gujarat In the Bombay Motor Vehicles Tax Act, 1958 (hereinafter referred to as "the principal Act"), in section 2, after clause (1), the following clause shall be inserted, namely:- "(1A) 'cost of vehicle', in relation to- (a) a vehicle manufactured in India means the ex-factory price of the vehicle as shown in the invoice of the vehicle issued either by the manufacturer or the dealer of the vehicle; and (b) a vehicle imported into India means value of vehicle as assessable under the Customs Act, 1962 and endorsed as such in the Bill of Entry under that Act;".
Bombay Motor Vehicles Tax (Gujarat Amendment) Act, 1998_Section 3--> State(s): Gujarat In the principal Act, in section 3,- (1) in sub-section (1), for the words "First, Second and Third Schedules", the words "First, Second, Third, Fourth and Fifth Schedules" shall be substituted; (2) in the proviso, after the words "Second Schedule", the words "or the Fourth Schedule" shall be inserted.
Bombay Motor Vehicles Tax (Gujarat Amendment) Act, 1998_Section 4--> State(s): Gujarat In the principal Act, in section 3A, for sub-section (4), the following sub-section shall be substituted, namely:- "(4) in calculating the amount of tax due under this section, the fraction of a rupee not exceeding fifty paise shall be ignored and the fraction of a rupee exceeding fifty raise shall be taken as a rupee.".
Bombay Motor Vehicles Tax (Gujarat Amendment) Act, 1998_Section 5--> State(s): Gujarat In the principal Act, in section 4,- (1) in sub-section (1AB), for the words "Second Schedule or the Third Schedule", the words "Second Schedule, Third Schedule, Fourth Schedule or Fifth Schedule" shall be substituted; (2) for sub-section (2), the following sub-section shall be substituted, namely:- "(2) In calculating the amount of tax due under this section, the fraction of a rupee not exceeding fifty paise shall be ignored and the fraction of a rupee exceeding fifty paise shall be taken as a rupee.".
Bombay Motor Vehicles Tax (Gujarat Amendment) Act, 1998_Section 6--> State(s): Gujarat In the principal Act, in section 5, in sub-section (1), for the words and figure "under section 3", the words "under this Act" shall be substituted.
Bombay Motor Vehicles Tax (Gujarat Amendment) Act, 1998_Section 7--> State(s): Gujarat In the principal Act, in section 6,- (1) in sub-section (1), for the words "the tax which he appears by such declaration to be liable to pay", the words "the tax which the Taxation Authority certifies on such declaration to be due" shall be substituted; (2) in sub-section (2),- (a) for the words "additional tax", the words "additional tax or a lump sum tax" shall be substituted; (b) for the words "the additional tax payable under that section, which he appears by such additional declaration to be liable to pay", the words 'an additional tax or the lump sum tax payable under that section which the Taxation Authority certifies on such declaration to be due" shall be substituted; (3) sub-section (5) shall be deleted.
Bombay Motor Vehicles Tax (Gujarat Amendment) Act, 1998_Section 8--> State(s): Gujarat In the principal Act, in section 11, in sub-section (2), in clause (c), for the words "Fourth Schedule", the words substituted.
Bombay Motor Vehicles Tax (Gujarat Amendment) Act, 1998_Section 9--> State(s): Gujarat In the principal Act, after section 12, the following sections shall be inserted, namely:- "12A. Restrictions on use of motor vehicles in certain cases. - No motor vehicle used or kept for use in the State shall be used on any road in the State where the tax payable in respect of such-vehicle certain cases, remains unpaid for more than thirty days after it has become due under the provisions of this Act, until the tax. penalty and interest, if any, due is paid. 12B. Power to seize and detain motor vehicle for non-payment of tax. - Without prejudice to the provisions of sections 12, 12A and 16, whereby tax due under this Act in respect of any vehicle has not been paid an officer not below the rank of an Inspector of Motor Vehicles or an Inspector of Police, as the State Government may empower in this behalf, seize and detain such vehicle and for this purpose, take or cause to be taken all steps as he may consider necessary for the proper maintenance and safe custody of the vehicle until the tax, penalty and interest, if any, due in respect of such vehicle and charges for the custody and maintenance of vehicle, is paid.".
Bombay Motor Vehicles Tax (Gujarat Amendment) Act, 1998_Section 10--> State(s): Gujarat In the principal Act, in section 25, for the words "Fifth Schedule", the words "Seventh Schedule" shall be substituted.
Bombay Motor Vehicles Tax (Gujarat Amendment) Act, 1998_Section 11--> State(s): Gujarat In the principal Act, in the First Schedule,- (1) in Part-I,- (a) for the words "Motor Vehicles using Motor Spirit", the words "Motor Vehicles using motor spirit, compressed natural gas or operated by electric battery or solar energy" shall be substituted; (b) the letter and words "A. Motor Vehicles fitted solely with pneumatic tyres" shall be deleted; (c) in sub-clause VII, item (iii) shall be deleted; (d) class B shall be deleted; (2) in Part-II, for the words "Motor Vehicles using fuel other than motor spirit", the words "Motor Vehicles using fuel other than motor spirit, compressed natural gas or operated by electric battery or solar energy" shall be substituted.
Bombay Motor Vehicles Tax (Gujarat Amendment) Act, 1998_Section 12--> State(s): Gujarat In the principal Act, in the Second Schedule,- (1) in Part-I,- (a) for the words "Motor Vehicles using motor spirit", the words "Motor Vehicles using motor spirit, compressed natural gas or operated by electric battery or solar energy" shall be substituted; (b) the letter and words "A. Motor Vehicles fitted solely with pneumatic tyres" shall be deleted; (c) clause III shall be deleted; (d) in clause IV, the words and letters "or clause III" and the words and letters "or as the case may be, clause III" shall be deleted; (e) in the Explanations I and II, the words and-letters "and clause III, shall be deleted; (f) class B shall be deleted. (2) in Part-II, for the words "Motor Vehicles using fuel other than motor spirit", the words "Motor Vehicles using fuel other than motor spirit, compressed natural gas or operated by electric battery or solar energy" shall be substituted.
Bombay Motor Vehicles Tax (Gujarat Amendment) Act, 1998_Section 13--> State(s): Gujarat In the principal Act, in the Third Schedule,- (1) in Part I,- (a) for the words "Motor Vehicles using motor spirit", the words "Motor Vehicles using motor spirit, compressed natural gas or operated by electric battery or solar energy" shall be substituted; (b) the letter and words "A. Motor Vehicles fitted solely with pneumatic tyres" shall be deleted; (c) clause III shall be deleted; (d) in clause IV, the words and letters "or clause III" and the words and letters "or as the case may be, clause III" shall be deleted; (e) in the Explanations I and II, the words and letters "and clause III" shall be deleted. (f) class B shall be delete; (2) in Part-II, for the words "Motor Vehicles using fuel other than motor spirit", the words "Motor Vehicles using fuel other than motor spirit, compressed natural gas or operated by electric battery or solar energy" shall be substituted.
Bombay Motor Vehicles Tax (Gujarat Amendment) Act, 1998_Section 14--> State(s): Gujarat In the principal Act after the Third Schedule, the following Schedules shall be inserted, namely:- "FOURTH SCHEDULE (See section 3) Motor Vehicles (other than transport vehicles and motor vehicles liable to tax under the Second Schedule) registered in the State of Gujarat on or after the 1st August, 1998.  Maximum rate of Lump sum Tax. Part-I.- Motor Vehicles using motor spirit, compressed natural gas or operated by electric battery or solar energy. Rs. A. Motor Vehicles including a trailer to carry personal effects or a camping trailer for private use, attached to such motor vehicle owned by an individual, an educational institution, a local authority, a public trust, a social welfare institution or a University. Eight percent of the cost of vehicle including the trailer or camping, trailer if any. Provided that two or more vehicles shall not be chargeable under this clause in respect of the same traitor. B. Motor Vehicles owned by a person other than an individual, an educational institution, a local authority, a public trust, a social welfare institution or a University. Twice the rates specified in clause A. C. Motor Vehicles falling under clause A or clause B and manufactured out of India and imported into India after the 31st July, 1998. Twice the rates specified in clause A, or as the case may be, clause, B. Part II.- Motor Vehicles using fuel other than motor spirit, compressed natural gas or operated by electric battery or solar energy. The rates specified in Part I plus a surcharge of fifty per cent. Explanation I.-For the purposes of this Schedule,- (a) (i) "educational institution" shall mean such educational institution as is recognised by the State Government by order notified is the Official Gazette, in this behalf; (ii) "local authority" shall mean any municipal corporation, municipality, cantonment board or panchayat constituted under any law for the time being in force in the State of Gujarat; (iii) "public trust" shall mean a public trust registered under the Bombay Public Trusts Act, 1950 as in force in the State of Gujarat; (iv) "social welfare institution" shall mean any institution engaged in any activity conducive to the welfare of the general public and recognised by the State Government by order notified in the Official Gazette, for the purposes of this Schedule; (v) "University" shall mean a university established by or under any law for the time being in force in the State of Gujarat; Explanation II.-If a motor vehicle is jointly owned by more persons than one, then notwithstanding anything contained in the proviso to sub-section (1) of section 41 of the Motor Vehicles Act, 1988, such motor vehicle shall be deemed to be owned by a person other than individual. Explanation III.-For the purposes of calculating the rate of lump sum tax under this Schedule if the invoice of the vehicle, or as the case may be, the Bill of Entry is not produced for any reason, then, the cost of vehicle shall be calculated as follows, namely:- (1) (i) In case of model of such vehicle is being manufactured, the cost of vehicle certified by a local dealer or manufacturer of such vehicle; (ii) In case the manufacture of such model is ceased, the prevailing-market price of such vehicle certified by the licensed assessor or value of motor vehicles. (2) If the cost of vehicle could not be calculated as per clause (1), the prevailing cost of similar vehicle determined by the Taxation Authority, closest in engine capacity and unladen weight of the vehicle in respect of which a tax is to be levied and collected. Explanation IV.-In calculating the cost of vehicle, if the cost of the vehicle is not in multiple of hundred, the fraction of a hundred not exceeding fifty rupees shall be ignored and the fraction of hundred exceeding fifty rupees shall be taken as hundred rupees. FIFTH SCHEDULE (See section 3) Motor Vehicles (other than transport vehicles and motor vehicles liable to tax under the Third Schedule) registered in any State other than State of Gujarat and brought for use or keeping for use in the State of Gujarat on or after the 1st August, 1998. Motor Vehicles other than those described in the Third Schedules but including a trailer to carry personal effects or a camping trailer for private use, attached to such motor vehicles.  If the age of the vehicle from the month of registration is- Rate of lump sum tax. 1. not more than 2 years 95% of the tax. 2. more than 2 years but not more than 3 years 90% of the tax. 3. more than 3 years but not more than 4 years 85% of the tax. 4. more than 4 years but not more than 5 years 80% of the tax. 5. more than 5 years but not more than 6 years 75% of the tax. 6. more than 6 years but not more than 7 years 70% of the tax. 7. more than 7 years but not more than 8 years 65% of the tax. 8. more than 8 years but not more than 9 years 60% of the tax. 9. more than 9 years but not more than 10 years 55% of the tax. 10. more than 10 years but not more than 11 years 50% of the tax. 11. more than 11 years but not more than 12 years 45% of the tax. 12. more than 12 years but not more than 13 years 40% of the tax. 13. more than 13 years but not more than 14 years 35% of the tax. 14. more than 14 years 30% of the tax. Explanation.-For the purposes of this Schedule, the expression 'tax' means the tax leviable under the Fourth Schedule.".
Bombay Motor Vehicles Tax (Gujarat Amendment) Act, 1998_Section 15--> State(s): Gujarat In the principal Act, the existing FOURTH SCHEDULE shall be renumbered as SIXTH SCHEDULE. 
