Bombay Personal Inams (Gujarat Amendment) Act, 1961_Section Preamble--> State(s): Gujarat An Act to amend the Bombay Personal Inams Abolition Act, 1952 for certain purposes. It is hereby enacted in the Twelfth Year of the Republic of India as follows:-
Bombay Personal Inams (Gujarat Amendment) Act, 1961_Section 1--> State(s): Gujarat (1) This Act may be called the Bombay Personal Inams (Gujarat Amendment) Act, 1961.
Bombay Personal Inams (Gujarat Amendment) Act, 1961_Section 2--> State(s): Gujarat In section 2 of the Bombay Personal Inams Abolition Act, 1952 (hereinafter referred to as "the principal Act"), in sub-section (1), in clause (e), the Explanation shall be and shall be deemed always to have been numbered as Explanation I and after Explanation I so numbered, the following Explanation shall be and shall be deemed always to have been inserted, namely:- "Explanation II.-In sub-clause (i) of this clause the reference to a grant of land shall include a reference to a grant consisting of a share in the revenues of a village, portion of a village or land;".
Bombay Personal Inams (Gujarat Amendment) Act, 1961_Section 3--> State(s): Gujarat After section 6 of the principal Act, the following section shall be inserted, namely:- "6A. Compensation for abolition of personal inams consisting of share of revenues. - In the case of a personal inam consisting of a share in the revenues of a village, portion of a village or land referred to in section 2(1)(e)(i), a sum equal to seven times the amount of such revenues received by or due to the inamdar for the year immediately preceding the appointed date shall be paid to the inamdar as compensation for the abolition of the personal imam.".
Bombay Personal Inams (Gujarat Amendment) Act, 1961_Section 4--> State(s): Gujarat After section 16 of the principal Act, the following section shall be inserted, namely:- "16A. Application for compensation under section 6A. - (1) An inamdar entitled to compensation under section 6A shall, within a period of twelve months form the commencement of the Bombay Personal Inams (Gujarat Amendment) Act, 1961, make an application in the prescribed form to the Collector. (2) The Collector shall after holding a formal inquiry in the manner provided in the Code make an award determining the amount of compensation. (3) An appeal shall lie from the said award to the Gujarat Revenue Tribunal. (4) The provisions of sections 10 to 16 (both inclusive) shall so far as may be, apply to the proceedings in respect of such award or appeal, as the case may be.". 
