Bombay Land Revenue (Gujarat Amendment) Act, 1987_Section Preamble--> State(s): Gujarat An Act further to amend the Bombay Land Revenue Code, 1879. It is hereby enacted in the-Thirty-eighth Year of the Republic of India as follows:-
Bombay Land Revenue (Gujarat Amendment) Act, 1987_Section 1--> State(s): Gujarat (1) This Act may be called the Bombay Land Revenue (Gujarat Amendment) Act, 1987. (2) It shall be deemed to have come into force on the 26th December 1986.
Bombay Land Revenue (Gujarat Amendment) Act, 1987_Section 2--> State(s): Gujarat In the Bombay Land Revenue Code, 1879 (hereinafter referred to as "the principal Act"), in section 12, the following paragraph shall be added at the end, namely:- "A decision or order of a Mamlatdar in performance of the duties and exercise of the powers, imposed or conferred upon him or delegated to him, under this section, shall be subject to the provisions of Chapter XIII.".
Bombay Land Revenue (Gujarat Amendment) Act, 1987_Section 3--> State(s): Gujarat In the principal Act, in section 135C, for the words "shall report orally or in writing", the words "shall report in writing" shall be substituted.
Bombay Land Revenue (Gujarat Amendment) Act, 1987_Section 4--> State(s): Gujarat In the principal Act, in section 135D,- (i) for sub-section (1), the following sub-section shall be substituted, namely:- "(1) The village accountant shall enter in a register of mutations every report made to him under section 135C or any intimation of acquisition or transfer of any right of the kind mentioned in section 135C received from the Mamlatdar or a Court of Law."; (2) in sub-section (3),- (a)" the words "either orally or" shall be deleted; and (b) the following shall be added at the end, namely:- "and to give a written acknowledgement of the receipt of such objection to the person making it.".
Bombay Land Revenue (Gujarat Amendment) Act, 1987_Section 5--> State(s): Gujarat In the principal Act, after CHAPTER XA, the following new Chapter shall be inserted, namely:- "CHAPTER XB OF THE AGRICULTURIST PASS BOOK 135M. Preparation and supply of agriculturist pass-book. - (1) In respect of every agriculturist holding land in a village or group of villages for which a village accountant is appointed, there shall be prepared by the village accountant an agriculturist passbook in duplicate in such form, and containing particulars as to rights recorded in the record of rights and such other particulars (including the particulars regarding subsisting mortgages of land, the total amount of mortgage money and the amount of interest due thereon) as may be prescribed by rules made under this Act. (2) The agriculturist pass-book shall be supplied to the agriculturist within such period from the commencement of the Bombay Land Revenue (Gujarat Amendment) Ordinance, 1986 as the State Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, specify and the duplicate agriculturist pass-book shall be retained by the village accountant. (3) The particulars referred to in sub-section (1) shall be with reference to such date as the State Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, specify. 135N. Agriculturist pass-book to accompany application for financial assistance. - No bank shall entertain an application by an agriculturist for grant of financial assistance unless such an application is accompanied by his agriculturist pass-book. Explanation.-In this section and section 135O, the expression "bank" means- (i) a banking company as defined in the Banking Regulation Act, 1949; (ii) the State Bank of India constituted under the State Bank of India Act, 1955; (iii) a subsidiary bank as defined in the State Bank of India (Subsidiary Banks) Act, 1959; (iv) a corresponding new bank constituted under the Banking Companies (Acquisition and Transfer of Undertakings) Act, 1970; (v) any banking institution notified by the Central Government under section 51 of the Banking Regulation Act, 1949; (vi) the Agricultural Refinance and Development Corporation constituted under the Agricultural Refinance and Development Corporation Act, 1963; (vii) any Agro-Industries Corporation; (viii) the Agricultural Finance Corporation Limited, a company incorporated under the Companies Act, 1956; (ix) a co-operative bank; (x) any other financial institution notified by the State Government in the Official Gazette as a bank, for the purposes of this Act. 135O. Entries in agriculturist pass-book by banks. - (1) Whenever an agriculturist mortgages or creates a charge on his land or any interest therein in favour of a bank for the purpose of obtaining financial assistance from that bank, or (2) whenever an agriculturist redeems any mortgage or a charge on his land or any interest therein by payment of mortgage money, the bank shall- (a) make necessary entries in the agriculturist pass-book of the agriculturist and thereafter return the pass-book to the agriculturist, and (b) (i) in the case filling under clause (1) report in writing of its acquisition of right as mortgagee to the village accountant in accord-dance with the provisions of section 135C and (ii) in the case falling under clause (2) report in writing of the redemption of mortgage to the village accountant in accordance with the provisions of section 135C. 135P. Agriculturist pass-book to be kept up-to-date. - Whenever entries are transferred from the register of mutations to the record of rights under section 135D, the village accountant shall call for the agriculturist pass-book from the concerned agriculturist and make entries therein, corresponding to those in the record of rights. 135Q. Duplicate agriculturist pass-book to be kept up-to-date. - The village accountant shall also keep the duplicate agriculturist pass-book retained by him up-to-date by making necessary entries therein, from time to time, after verifying the entries from the original agriculturist pass-book and for that purpose, he may, from time to time, call for the original agriculturist pass-book from the agriculturist whereupon it shall be the duty of the agriculturist to forward his agriculturist pass-book to the village accountant. 135R. Mode of proof of entries in agriculturist pass-book. - A certified copy of any entry in the duplicate agriculturist pass-book maintained by the village accountant shall in all legal proceedings be received as prima facie evidence of the existence of such entry and shall be admitted as evidence of the matters, transactions and accounts therein recorded to the same extent as the original entry itself but not further or otherwise. Explanation.-For the purposes of this Chapter, the expression 'agriculturist' means a land holder who holds land for the purpose of agriculture,."
Bombay Land Revenue (Gujarat Amendment) Act, 1987_Section 6--> State(s): Gujarat (1) The Bombay Land Revenue (Gujarat Amendment) Ordinance, 1986 is hereby repealed. (2) Notwithstanding such repeal, anything done or any action taken under the principal Act as amended by the said Ordinance shall be deemed to have been done or taken under the principal Act as amended by this Act. 
