Bombay Stamp (Gujarat Amendment) Act, 2002_Section Preamble--> State(s): Gujarat An Act further to amend the Bombay Stamp Act, 1958. It is hereby enacted in the Fifty-third Year of the Republic of India as follows:-
Bombay Stamp (Gujarat Amendment) Act, 2002_Section 1--> State(s): Gujarat (1) This Act may be called the Bombay Stamp (Gujarat Amendment) Act, 2002. (2) It shall come into force on the 1st April, 2002.
Bombay Stamp (Gujarat Amendment) Act, 2002_Section 2--> State(s): Gujarat In the Bombay Stamp Act, 1958 (hereinafter referred to as "the principal Act"), in section 3, after clause (a), the following clause shall be inserted, namely:- "(aa) every instrument mentioned in Schedule I, which not having been previously executed by or on behalf of or in favour of the Government or any local authority, is executed by or on behalf of or in favour of, the Government or any local authority;".
Bombay Stamp (Gujarat Amendment) Act, 2002_Section 3--> State(s): Gujarat In the principal Act, in section 46, in sub-section (1), for the words "twenty four per cent.", the words "fifteen per cent." shall be substituted.
Bombay Stamp (Gujarat Amendment) Act, 2002_Section 4--> State(s): Gujarat In the principal Act, in Schedule I,- (1) in article 5, after clause (ga), the following clause shall be inserted, namely:- "(gb) if relating to advertisement on radio, television, cinema, cable network or any media other than newspapers. Subject to maximum of twenty-five thousand rupees, twenty-five paise for every hundred rupees or part thereof on the amount of consideration of such agreement."; (2) in article 20, for clause (d), the following shall be substituted, namely:- "(d) CONVEYANCE, so far as it relates to reconstruction or amalgamation of companies by an order of the High Court under section 394 of the Companies Act, 1956. Subject to maximum often crores rupees- (i) an amount equal to 0.75 per cent. of the aggregate amount comprising of the market value of share issued or allotted in exchange of or otherwise, or the face value of such shares, whichever is higher aid the amount of consideration, if any, paid for such amalgamation, or (ii) an amount equal to 0.75 per cent. of the true market value of the immovable property situated in the State of Gujarat of the transferor company, whichever is higher."; (3) in article 30, in clause (a), (i) in sub-clause (ii), for the words, brackets and figures, "The same duty as a Bond (No. 14)", the words "One rupee for every hundred rupees, or part thereof" shall be substituted; (ii) in sub-clause (ii), for the words, brackets and figures "The same duty as a Bond (No. 14)", the words "Three rupees for every hundred rupees or part thereof" shall be substituted; (4) after article 30, the following article shall be inserted, namely:- "30A. LEAVE AND LICENCE AGREEMENT relating to immovable property other than the residential property Fifty paise for every hundred rupees or part thereof on the whole amount payable or deliverable plus the total amount of fine or premium or money advanced or to be advanced irrespective of the period for which such leave and licence agreement is executed.". 
