Bombay Motor Vehicles Tax (Gujarat Amendment) Act, 2003_Section Preamble--> State(s): Gujarat An Act further to amend the Bombay Motor Vehicles Tax Act, 1958. It is hereby enacted in the Fifty-fourth Year of the Republic of India as follows:-
Bombay Motor Vehicles Tax (Gujarat Amendment) Act, 2003_Section 1--> State(s): Gujarat (1) This Act may be called the Bombay Motor Vehicles Tax (Gujarat Amendment) Act, 2003. (2) It shall come into force on the 1st April, 2003.
Bombay Motor Vehicles Tax (Gujarat Amendment) Act, 2003_Section 2--> State(s): Gujarat In the Bombay Motor Vehicles Tax Act, 1958 (hereinafter referred to as "the principal Act"), in section 3, in the proviso to sub-section (1), the words, figure and letter "section 3A of" shall be deleted.
Bombay Motor Vehicles Tax (Gujarat Amendment) Act, 2003_Section 3--> State(s): Gujarat In the principal Act, in section 4, in the Explanation, for the words, brackets and figures "sub-section (6) of section 9", the words, brackets, figures and letters "sub-section (6) of section 9, sub-section (1AA) of section 18" shall be substituted.
Bombay Motor Vehicles Tax (Gujarat Amendment) Act, 2003_Section 4--> State(s): Gujarat In the principal Act, after section 8, the following new section shall be inserted, namely:- "8A. Interest on non-payment of tax. - (1) Where the whole or any portion of the tax due in accordance with the provisions of this Act in respect of any motor vehicle for any period or part thereof has not been paid in time by the person liable for the payment thereof, such person shall be liable to pay in addition to the tax so due, simple interest at the rate of two per cent. for each month or part thereof, on the amount of tax so due but not so paid or any less amount thereof remaining unpaid during such period. (2) In calculating the amount of interest payable under this section, the fraction of a rupee not exceeding fifty paise shall be ignored and the fraction of a rupee exceeding fifty paise shall be taken as a rupee. (3) Subject to such conditions as may be prescribed, the State Government may, if it considers it necessary so to do in the public interest, by an order remit the whole or any part of the interest payable under this section in respect of any specified period."
Bombay Motor Vehicles Tax (Gujarat Amendment) Act, 2003_Section 5--> State(s): Gujarat In the principal Act, in section 12, for the word "tax", the words the words "tax, penalty or interest" shall be substituted.
Bombay Motor Vehicles Tax (Gujarat Amendment) Act, 2003_Section 6--> State(s): Gujarat In the principal Act, in section 13,- (1) sub-section (1) shall be deleted; (2) in sub-section (2), the words, bracket and figure "other than those falling under sub-section (1)" shall be deleted; (3) the Explanation shall be deleted.
Bombay Motor Vehicles Tax (Gujarat Amendment) Act, 2003_Section 7--> State(s): Gujarat In the principal Act, in section 18,- (1) after sub-section (1A), the following sub-section shall be inserted, namely:- "(1AA) Where a register owner or any person in possession or control of an omnibus who is required to use or to keep for use such omnibus for the purpose for which it is registered is found using such omnibus other than that purpose, the Taxation Authority may levy a penalty equal to the monthly instalment of tax for that month payable in respect of the designated omnibus.". (2) in sub-section (2), after the words, brackets, figure and letter "sub-section (1A)", the words, brackets, figures and letters "or sub-section (1AA)" shall be inserted.
Bombay Motor Vehicles Tax (Gujarat Amendment) Act, 2003_Section 8--> State(s): Gujarat In the principal Act, in section 23, in sub-section (2), in clause (b), the words, brackets, figures and letter "under sub-sections (2) and (3) of section 3 A and" shall be deleted.
Bombay Motor Vehicles Tax (Gujarat Amendment) Act, 2003_Section 9--> State(s): Gujarat In the principal Act, in the First Schedule,- (1) in Part I,- (a) for the words "compressed natural gas", the words "compressed natural gas, liquid petroleum gas" shall be substituted; (b) in clause IV-AAA, in item (a),- (i) for sub-item (i), the following shall be substituted, namely:- "(i) Ordinary designated omnibuses licensed to carry not more than twelve passengers. Rs. 1800 for every passenger which the vehicles is so licensed to carry. (ii) Ordinary designated omnibuses licensed to carry more than twelve passengers but not more than twenty passengers. Rs. 3800 for every passenger which the vehicle is so licensed to carry."; (ii) the existing sub-item (it) shall be renumbered as sub-item (iii); (2) in Part II, for the words "compressed natural gas", the words "compressed natural gas, liquid petroleum gas" shall be substituted.
Bombay Motor Vehicles Tax (Gujarat Amendment) Act, 2003_Section 10--> State(s): Gujarat In the principal Act, in the Second Schedule,- (1) in Part-I, for the words "compressed natural gas", the words "compressed natural gas, liquid petroleum gas" shall be substituted; (2) in Part-II, for the words "compressed natural gas", the words "compressed natural gas, liquid petroleum gas" shall be substituted.
Bombay Motor Vehicles Tax (Gujarat Amendment) Act, 2003_Section 11--> State(s): Gujarat In the principal Act in the Third Schedule,- (1) in Part - I, for the words "compressed natural gas", the words "compressed natural gas, liquid petroleum gas" shall be substituted; (2) in Part - II, for the words "compressed natural gas", the words "compressed natural gas, liquid petroleum gas" shall be substituted.
Bombay Motor Vehicles Tax (Gujarat Amendment) Act, 2003_Section 12--> State(s): Gujarat In the principal Act, in the Fourth Schedule,- (1) in Part-I, for the words "compressed natural gas", the words "compressed natural gas, liquid petroleum gas" shall be substituted; (2) in Part-II, for the words "compressed natural gas", the words "compressed natural gas, liquid petroleum gas" shall be substituted.
Bombay Motor Vehicles Tax (Gujarat Amendment) Act, 2003_Section 13--> State(s): Gujarat In the principal Act, in the Sixth Schedule,- (1) in Part-I, for the words "compressed natural gas", the words "compressed natural gas, liquid petroleum gas" shall be substituted; (2) in Part-II, for the words "compressed natural gas", the words "compressed natural gas, liquid petroleum gas" shall be substituted.
Bombay Motor Vehicles Tax (Gujarat Amendment) Act, 2003_Section 14--> State(s): Gujarat In the principal Act, in the Eighth Schedule,- (1) in Part I, for the words "compressed natural gas", the words "compressed natural gas, liquid petroleum gas" shall be substituted; (2) in Part-II, for the words "compressed natural gas", the words "compressed natural gas, liquid petroleum gas" shall be substituted. 
