Bombay Land Revenue (Gujarat Amendment and Validation) Act, 1981_Section Preamble--> State(s): Gujarat An act further to amend the Bombay Land Revenue Code, 1879 and to validate certain rules made thereunder. It is hereby enacted in the Thirty-second Year of the Republic of India, as follows:-
Bombay Land Revenue (Gujarat Amendment and Validation) Act, 1981_Section 1--> State(s): Gujarat (1) This Act may be called the Bombay Land Revenue (Gujarat Amendment and Validation) Act, 1981. (2) It shall be deemed to have come into force on the 10th December, 1980.
Bombay Land Revenue (Gujarat Amendment and Validation) Act, 1981_Section 2--> State(s): Gujarat In the Bombay Land Revenue Code, 1879 (hereinafter referred to as "the principal Act"), in section 214, in sub-section (1), for the words "make rules" the words "make, whether prospectively or retrospectively, rules" shall be substituted.
Bombay Land Revenue (Gujarat Amendment and Validation) Act, 1981_Section 3--> State(s): Gujarat In the principal Act, section 215 shall be renumbered as sub-section (1) of that section and after sub-section (1) as so renumbered, the following sub-section shall be added, namely:- "(2) (a) Nothing in section 214 shall authorise the State Government to make retrospectively a rule prescribing a penalty referred to in sub-section (1). (b) Notwithstanding the retrospective operation of any rule made under section 214, no thing or no action constituting breach of such rule, done or taken by a person before such rule is so made shall render such person liable to penalty prescribed under sub-section (1).".
Bombay Land Revenue (Gujarat Amendment and Validation) Act, 1981_Section 4--> State(s): Gujarat Any rule made retrospectively under section 214 of the principal Act, before the commencement of this Act shall be and shall be deemed always to have been validly made in accordance with law, as if the principal Act had been in force as amended by this Act at all material times when such rule was made and any such rule or anything done or action or proceeding taken or purported to have been done or taken under such rule, shall not be called in question in any court or before any officer or authority whatsoever merely on the ground that such rule was made retrospectively without power to do so. or that such thing was done or action or proceeding was taken or purported to have been done or taken under such rule.
Bombay Land Revenue (Gujarat Amendment and Validation) Act, 1981_Section 5--> State(s): Gujarat (1) The Bombay Land Revenue (Gujarat Amendment and Validation) Ordinance, 1980 is hereby repealed. (2) Notwithstanding such repeal, anything done or any action taken under the principal Act as amended by the said Ordinance, shall be deemed to have been done or taken under the principal Act as amended by this Act. 
