Bombay Cinemas (Regulation) (Gujarat Amendment) Act, 1976_Section Preamble--> State(s): Gujarat An Act further to amend the Bombay Cinemas (Regulation) Act, 1953. It is hereby enacted in the Twenty-seventh Year of the Republic of India as follows:-
Bombay Cinemas (Regulation) (Gujarat Amendment) Act, 1976_Section 1--> State(s): Gujarat (1) This Act may be called the Bombay Cinemas (Regulation) (Gujarat Amendment) Act, 1976. (2) It shall come into force on such date as the State Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, appoint.
Bombay Cinemas (Regulation) (Gujarat Amendment) Act, 1976_Section 2--> State(s): Gujarat In the Bombay Cinemas (Regulation) Act, 1953 (hereinafter referred to as "the principal Act"), in section 8A, for the words "shall be final" the words, figures and letters "shall, subject to provisions of sections 8B and 8C, be final".
Bombay Cinemas (Regulation) (Gujarat Amendment) Act, 1976_Section 3--> State(s): Gujarat In the principal Act, after section 8B, the following section shall be inserted, namely:- "8C. Review. - Any person who, considering himself aggrieved by an order of the State Government under section 8A or 8B, desires to obtain a review of the order passed against him, on the ground of some mistake or error apparent on the face of the record or on the ground that some new fact has been discovered which could not be placed earlier before the licensing authority or the State Government inspite of due diligence on the part of such person, may, within such period as may be prescribed, apply for a review of the order to the State Government and the State Government shall, after making such inquiry as it thinks fit, pass such order as it considers necessary in the circumstances of the case.".
Bombay Cinemas (Regulation) (Gujarat Amendment) Act, 1976_Section 4--> State(s): Gujarat In the principal Act, in section 9, in sub-section (2), in clause (a-i), the words "may be made" shall be deleted and after the word, figure and letter "section 8B" the words, figure and letter "or a review application under section 8C may be made" shall be inserted.
Bombay Cinemas (Regulation) (Gujarat Amendment) Act, 1976_Section 5--> State(s): Gujarat In the principal Act, after section 10, the following section shall be inserted, namely:- "10A. Delegation of power under section 10. - The State Government may, subject to such restrictions and conditions as it may think fit to impose, by notification in the Official Gazette delegate to any of its officers the power conferred on it by section 10.". 
