Bombay Public Authorities Seals (Gujarat Extension and Amendment) Act, 1961_Section Preamble--> State(s): Gujarat An Act to extend the Bombay Public Authorities Seals Act, 1883 throughout the State of Gujarat. It is hereby enacted in the Twelfth Year of the Republic of India as follows:-
Bombay Public Authorities Seals (Gujarat Extension and Amendment) Act, 1961_Section 1--> State(s): Gujarat (1) This Act may be called the Bombay Public Authorities Seals (Gujarat Extension and Amendment) Act, 1961. (2) It shall come into force on such date as the State Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, appoint.
Bombay Public Authorities Seals (Gujarat Extension and Amendment) Act, 1961_Section 2--> State(s): Gujarat After section 1 of the Bombay Public Authorities Seals Act, 1883 (hereinafter referred to as "the principal Act"), the following section shall be inserted, namely:- "1A. Extent. - On and from the commencement of the Bombay Public Authorities Seals (Gujarat Extension and Amendment) Act, 1961, this Act, shall extend also to and be in force in that part of the State of Gujarat to which it did not extend before such commencement.".
Bombay Public Authorities Seals (Gujarat Extension and Amendment) Act, 1961_Section 3--> State(s): Gujarat After section 4 of the principal Act, the following section shall be inserted, namely:- "5. Repeal and saving. - (1) On the commencement of the Bombay Public Authorities Seals (Gujarat Extension and Amendment) Act, 1961, the Bombay Public Authorities Seals Act, 1883, as adapted and applied to the Saurashtra area of the State of Gujarat and that Act as applied to the Kutch area of the State of Gujarat shall stand repealed. (2) The provisions of the Bombay General Clauses Act, 1904 shall apply to such repeal; Provided that anything done or any action taken under the provisions of the laws so repealed shall be deemed to have been done or taken under this Act and shall continue in force until superseded by anything done or any action taken under the provisions of this Act.". 
