Bombay Stamp (Gujarat Amendment) Act, 1994_Section Preamble--> State(s): Gujarat An Act further to amend the Bombay Stamp Act, 1958. It is hereby enacted in the Forty-fifth year of the Republic of India as follows:-
Bombay Stamp (Gujarat Amendment) Act, 1994_Section 1--> State(s): Gujarat (1) This Act may be called the Bombay Stamp (Gujarat Amendment) Act, 1994. (2) This section shall be deemed to have come into force on the 31st March, 1994 and the remaining provisions of this Act shall be deemed to have come into force on the 4th April, 1994.
Bombay Stamp (Gujarat Amendment) Act, 1994_Section 2--> State(s): Gujarat In the Bombay Stamp Act, 1958 (hereinafter referred to as "the principal Act"), in section 2, (1) after clause (dd), the following new clause shall be inserted, namely:- "(e) "clearance list" means a list of transactions relating to contracts requited to be submitted to the clearing house of an association in accordance with the rules of bye-laws of the association: Provided that no instrument shall, for the purposes of this Act, be deemed to be a clearance list, unless it contains the following declaration signed by the person dealing in such transaction or on his behalf by a properly constituted attorney, namely:- "I/We hereby solemnly declare that the above list contains a complete and true statement of my/our transactions including crossed out transactions and transactions required to be submitted to the clearing house in accordance with the rules/bye-laws of the association. I/We further declare that no transaction for which an exemption is claimed under Article 5 or Article 39 in Schedule I to the Bombay Stamp Act, 1958, as the case may be, is omitted." Explanation.-For the purposes of this clause, transaction shall include both sale and purchase."; (2) for clause (g), the following clause shall be substituted, namely:- "(g) "conveyance" includes,- (i) a conveyance on sale, (ii) every instrument, (iii) every decree or final order of any Civil Court; or (iv) every order made by the High Court under section 394 of the Companies Act, 1956 in respect of amalgamation of companies, by which property, whether movable or immovable, or any estate or interest in any property is transferred to, or vested in, any other person, inter vivos, and which is not otherwise specifically provided for by Schedule I. Explanation.-For the purposes of this clause, an instrument whereby a co-owner of any property transfers his interest to another co-owner of the property and which is not an instrument of partition shall be deemed to be an instrument by which property is transferred inter vivos;"; (3) after clause (j), the following new clause shall be inserted, namely:- "(ja) "immovable property" includes land, benefits to arise out of land, and things attached to the earth, or permanently fastened to anything attached to the earth;"; (4) in clause (la) - (i) after the words "any movable", the words "or immovable" shall be inserted; (ii) for the words "such gift", the words "such oral gift" shall be substituted; (5) in clause (n),- (i) for the word "immovable", the words "movable or immovable or both" shall be substituted; (ii) after sub-clause (iv), the following new sub-clause shall be inserted, namely:- "(v) a decree or final order of any Civil Court in respect of a lease; Provided that where subsequently an instrument of lease is executed in pursuance of such decree or order, the stamp duty, if any, already paid and recovered on such decree or order shall be adjusted towards the total duty leviable on such instrument;"; (6) after clause (p), the following new clause shall be inserted, namely:- "(pa) "movable property" includes standing timber, growing crops and grass, fruits upon and juice in trees and property of every other description, except immovable property, by which any right or liability is or is purported to be created, transferred, limited, extended, extinguished or recorded;".
Bombay Stamp (Gujarat Amendment) Act, 1994_Section 3--> State(s): Gujarat In the principal Act, in section 3A, after the word "executed" the words "in respect of the property situated" shall be inserted.
Bombay Stamp (Gujarat Amendment) Act, 1994_Section 4--> State(s): Gujarat In the principal Act, in section 17, for the words "at the time of execution", the following shall be substituted, namely:- "at the time of execution or immediately thereafter on the next working day following the day of execution: Provided that the clearance list described is Articles 18A, 18B, 18C, 18D or 18E of Schedule I may be stamped by an officer authorised by the State Government by rules made under this Act, if such clearance list is submitted for stamping by the clearing house of an Association in accordance with its rules and by-laws with the requisite amount of stamp duty, within two months from the date of its execution.".
Bombay Stamp (Gujarat Amendment) Act, 1994_Section 5--> State(s): Gujarat In the principal Act, in section 30,- (i) in clause (e), the word "and" shall be deleted; (ii) in clause (f), the word "and" shall be inserted at the end; (iii) after clause (f), the following clause shall be inserted, namely:- "(g) in any other case, by the person executing the instrument.".
Bombay Stamp (Gujarat Amendment) Act, 1994_Section 6--> State(s): Gujarat In the principal Act, in section 31, in sub-section (1), for the words "not exceeding twenty five rupees and not less than five rupees", the words "not exceeding one hundred rupees and not loss than twenty-five rupees" shall be substituted.
Bombay Stamp (Gujarat Amendment) Act, 1994_Section 7--> State(s): Gujarat In the principal Act, in section 32A,- (1) for sub-section (1), the following sub-section shall be substituted, namely:- "(1) Every instrument of conveyance, exchange, gift, certificate of sale, partition, partnership, settlement, power of attorney to sell immovable property when given for consideration or transfer of lease by way of assignment, presented for registration under the provisions of the Registration Act, 1908 shall be accompanied by a true copy thereof; and if an officer registering such instrument under the aforesaid Act or any person referred to in section 33 before whom such instrument is produced or comes in the performance of his functions, has reason to believe that the consideration set forth therein does not approximate to the market value of the property which is the subject matter of such instrument, or, as the case may be, the market value of the property which is the subject matter of such instrument, has not been truely setforth therein, he may either before or after registering the instrument or, as the case may be, performing his functions in respect of such instrument, refer the instrument or true copy thereof to the Collector of such district in which either the whole or any part of the property is situated for determining the true market value of such property and the proper duty payable on the instrument under this section."; (2) in sub-section (2), for the words and figures "section 31 or" the words and figures "section 31 or instrument or true copy of instrument under" shall be substituted; (3) in sub-section (3), after words "of two hundred and fifty rupees", the words "or the amount of the proper duty or of the deficient portion thereof whichever is less" shall be inserted; (4) in sub-section (4), for the words "two years", the words "six years" shall be substituted.
Bombay Stamp (Gujarat Amendment) Act, 1994_Section 8--> State(s): Gujarat In the principal Act, for section 46, the following section shall be substituted, namely:- "46. Recovery of duties penalties and interest. - (1) Whore any person required to pay any amount of duty, penalty or other sums under this Act does not pay within the time prescribed for its payment he shall be liable to pay simple interest at the rate of twenty four per cent, per annum such amount or on any less amount thereof for the period for which such amount remains unpaid. (2) All duties, penalties, interest and other sums required to be paid under this Act may be recovered by the Collector by distress and sale of the movable or immovable property of the person from whom the same are due, or as an arrears of land revenue.".
Bombay Stamp (Gujarat Amendment) Act, 1994_Section 9--> State(s): Gujarat In the principal Act, in section 53, in sub-section (1), after the word and letters "Chapter, III", the words, letter, brackets and figures "except sub-section (3) of section 32A" shall be inserted.
Bombay Stamp (Gujarat Amendment) Act, 1994_Section 10--> State(s): Gujarat In the principal Act, after section 53, the following new section shall be inserted namely:- "53A. Revision of Collector's decision under sections 32, 32A, 39 and 41. - (1) Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section (3) of section 32, sub-section (3) of section 32A, sub-section (2) of section 39 and sub-section (2) of section 41, when through mistake or otherwise any instruments is charged with less duty than leviable thereon, or is held not chargeable with duty, by the Collector, the Chief Controlling Revenue Authority may, within a period of six years from the date of certificate of the Collector under sections 32, 32A, 39 or 41, as the case may be, required the concerned party to produce before him the instrument and, after giving reasonable opportunity of being heard to the party, examine such instrument whether any duty is chargeable or any duty is levied less thereon and pass an order for recovery of the deficit duty, if any, from the concerned party. An endorsement shall be made on the instrument after payment of such deficit duty. (2) On failure to produce the original instrument by the party, the Chief Controlling Revenue Authority shall proceed under this section on the basis of the true copy or an abstract of the instrument filed with the Collector and such true copy or abstract shall be deemed to be the original instrument for the purposes of this section.".
Bombay Stamp (Gujarat Amendment) Act, 1994_Section 11--> State(s): Gujarat In the principal Act, in Schedule-I- (1) in Article 5,- (i) in the heading, after the words "MEMORANDUM OF AN AGREEMENT", the words "OR ITS RECORDS" shall be inserted; (ii) in clause (h), under the heading "exemption", after the words "Memorandum of Agreement", the words "or its records" shall be inserted; (2) in Article 6, in clause (2), in sub-clause (a), for items (i) to (viii), the following items shall be substituted, namely:- "(i) where the amount of loan or debt does not exceed Rs. 15,00,000. Fifty paise for every hundred rupee or part thereof. (ii) where it exceeds Rs. 15,00,000. One rupee for every hundred rupees or part thereof."; (3) in Article 18, for the words, "Five rupees", the words "Two rupees" shall be substituted; (4) after Article 18, the following new Articles shall be inserted, namely:- "18A. (1) CLEARANCE LIST, relating to the transactions for the purchase or sale of Government securities submitted to the clearing house of a stock exchange. The sum of duties payable under Article 5(b) or 39(g), as the case may be, in respect of each of the entries in such list on the value of the securities calculated at the making up price or the contract price, as the case may be. (2) CLEARANCE LIST, relating to the transactions for the purchase or sale of a share, script, stock, bond, debenture, debenture-stock or other marketable security of a like nature in or of an incorporated company or other body corporate submitted to the clearing house of a stock exchange whether recognised or not under the Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956. The sum of duties payable under Article 5(c)(i) or 39(f), as the case may be, in respect of each of the entries in such list on the value of the securities calculated at the making up price or the contract price, as the case may be. 18B. CLEARANCE LIST, relating to the transactions for the purchase or sale of cotton submitted to the clearing house of a Cotton Association. The sum of duties payable under Article-5(d) or 39(a), as the case may be, in respect of each of the entries in such list on the units of transactions or part thereof. 18C. CLEARANCE LIST, relating to the transactions for the purchase or sale of bullion or species submitted to the clearing house of a Bullion Association. The sum of duties payable under Article 5(e) or 39(b), as the case may be, in respect to each of the entries in such list on the units of transactions or part thereof. 18D. CLEARANCE LIST, relating to the transactions for the purchase or sale of oil seeds submitted to the clearing house of Oil Seed Association. The sum of duties payable under Article 5(f) or 39(c), as the case may be, in respect of the entries in such list on the units of transactions or part thereof. 18E. CLEARANCE LIST, relating to the transactions for the purchase or sale of yarn of any kind, non-mineral oil or spices of any kind. The sum of duties payable under Article 5(g) or 39(d), as the case may be, in respect of the entries in such list on the units of transactions or part thereof." (5) in Article 20,- (1) after clause (b), the following new clause shall be inserted, namely:- "(c) CONVEYANCE (not being a transfer charged or exempted under Article No. 56) of the property which is subject matter of the conveyance so far it relates to premises- The same duty as is leviable under Article 20(b).; (i) of a Corporation formed and registered under the Bombay Non-Trading Corporations Act, 1959; or (ii) of a Board constituted under the Gujarat Housing Board Act, 1961, or the Gujarat Rural Housing Board Act, 1972; or (iii) to which provisions of the Gujarat Ownership Flats Act, 1973 apply by such Corporation, Board, Society, Company or, as the case may be, Association, in favour of its member or, as the case may be, allottee (whether in consequence of purchase of his share or not) or by such member or, as the case may be, allottee in favour of another member or allottee (whether in consequence of transfer of his share to another member or, as the case may be, allottee or not)."; (2) The existing explanation shall be re-numbered as explanation II and before explanation II as so re-numbered, the following explanation shall be inserted, namely:- "Explanation I.-For the purposes of this Article, an agreement to sell an immovable property or an irrevocable power of attorney shall, in case of transfer of the possession of such property before, at the time of, or after the execution of such agreement or power of attorney, be deemed to be a conveyance and the stamp duty thereon shall be chargeable accordingly: Provided that the provisions of section 32A shall apply mutatis mutandis to such agreement or power of attorney as are applicable to a conveyance: Provided further that where subsequently a conveyance is executed in pursuance of such agreement of sale, or an irrevocable power of attorney, the stamp duty, if any, already paid and recovered on the agreement of sale or an irrevocable power of attorney which is deemed to be a conveyance, shall be adjusted towards the total duty leviable on the conveyance."; (6) in Article 21, for the words "Ten rupees", the words "Twenty rupees" shall be substituted; (7) in Article 25, for the words "Fifty rupees", the words "Five hundred rupees" shall be substituted; (8) for Article 27, the following Article shall be substituted, namely:- "27. FURTHER CHARGE-Instrument of, that is to say, any instrument imposing [a further charge on mortgaged property- (a) when the original mortgage is one of the description referred to in clause (a) of Article 36 (that is, with possession). The same duty as is leviable on a conveyance under Article 20(a) for the amount of further charge secured by such instrument. (b) when such mortgage is one of the description referred to in clause (b) of Article 36 (that is, without possession)- (i) if at the time of execution of the instrument of further charge possession of the property is given under such instrument. Eight rupees for every Rs. 100 or part thereof for the total amount of the charge (including the original mortgage and any further charge already made) less the duty already paid on such original mortgage and further charge. (ii) if possession is not so given. Three rupees for every Rs. 100 or part thereof for the amount of the further charge secured by such instrument."; (9) in Article 31, for the words "Five rupees", the words "Two rupees" shall be substituted; (10) in Article 32, for the words "Forty rupees", the words "Sixty rupees" shall be substituted; (11) in Article 35, in clause (a), for the words "One hundred rupees", the words "One thousand rupees" shall be substituted; (12) in Article 36,- (1) in clause (a),- (i) the words "or is not" shall be deleted; (ii) in column 2, after the words "conveyance under", the words, brackets and letter "clause (a) of" shall be inserted; (2) the existing clause (b) shall be re-lettered as clause (c) of that Article and before clause (c) as so re-lettered, the following clause shall he inserted, namely:- "(b) when possession of the property or any part of the property comprised in such deed is not given or not agreed to be given. Three rupees for every Rs. 100 or part thereof for the amount secured by such deed. Explanation.-A mortgagor who gives to the mortgagee a power of attorney to collect rents or a lease of the property mortgaged or part thereof, shall be deemed to have given possession within the meaning of this Article."; (13) in Article 45,- (1) in clauses (a), (b) and (c), in column (2), for the words "Ten rupees", the words "Twenty rupees" shall be substituted; (2) clause (g) shall be re-lettered as clause (h) of that Article and before clause (h) as so re-lettered, the following clause shall be inserted, namely:- "(g) When given for consideration with the right to sell an immovable property, or when given, with or without consideration, to a promoter or a developer by whatever name called, for construction or development, of, or sale or transfer (in any manner whatsoever) of, any immovable property, or when given, with or without consideration, irrevocable power of attorney transferring the possession of any immovable property; The same duty as is leviable on a conveyance under Article 20 for the amount of the consideration or, as the case may be, market value of the immovable property whichever is greater." (3) in clause (h) as so re-lettered, for the words "Ten rupees" the words "Twenty rupees" shall be substituted; (4) for the existing N.B. and the explanation below the Article, the following shall be substituted, namely:- "Explanation I.-For the purposes of this Article, more persons than one when belonging to the same firm shall be deemed to be one person. Explanation II.-The term "registration" includes every operation incidental to registration under the Registration Act, 1908. Explanation III.-Where, under clause (g), duty has been paid on the power of attorney, and a conveyance relating to that property is subsequently executed in pursuance of the power of attorney between the executant of the power of attorney and the person in whose favour it is executed, the duty on conveyance shall be the duty calculated on the market value of the property reduced by duty paid on the power of attorney."; (14) in Article 57,- (1) in column 1, after the words "under lease", the words "or by way of decree or final order passed by any Civil Court or any Revenue Officer" shall be inserted; (2) in column 2, for the words and figures "Article 20 for the amount of consideration for the transfer", the words, figures, letter and brackets "Article 20 (a) for the amount of consideration for the transfer or, as the case may be, market value of the immovable property which ever is greater" shall be substituted.
Bombay Stamp (Gujarat Amendment) Act, 1994_Section 12--> State(s): Gujarat (1) The Bombay Stamp (Gujarat Amendment) Ordinance, 1994 is hereby repealed. (2) Notwithstanding such repeal, anything done or any action taken under the principal Act as amended by the said Ordinance shall be deemed to have been done or taken under the principal Act as amended by this Act. 
