Bombay Prevention of Gambling (Gujarat Amendment) Act, 1972_Section Preamble--> State(s): Gujarat An Act further to amend the Bombay Prevention of Gambling Act, 1887. It is hereby enacted in the Twenty-third Year of the Republic of India as follows:-
Bombay Prevention of Gambling (Gujarat Amendment) Act, 1972_Section 1--> State(s): Gujarat This Act may be called the Bombay Prevention of Gambling (Gujarat Amendment) Act, 1972.
Bombay Prevention of Gambling (Gujarat Amendment) Act, 1972_Section 2--> State(s): Gujarat In the Bombay Prevention of Gambling Act, 1887 (hereinafter referred to as "the principal Act"), in section 3, in the paragraph beginning with the words "In this Act, 'common gaming house' means", in clause (i),- (a) in item (e) the word "or" shall be inserted at the end, and (b) after item (e), the following item shall be inserted, namely:- "(f) on the digits or figures used in stating the opening, middle or closing digits or figures declared for or in connection with Worli Matka gaming or any other form of gaming.".
Bombay Prevention of Gambling (Gujarat Amendment) Act, 1972_Section 3--> State(s): Gujarat After section 3 of the principal Act, the following section shall be inserted, namely:- "3A. Punishment for printing or publishing digits or figures re-lating to Worli Matka or other form of gaming. - (1) Whoever prints or publishes in any manner whatsoever any digits or figures or combination of digits or figures relating to Worli Matka or any other form of gaming under the heading "Shubha Rashi" or by adopting any other form or device, or disseminates or attempts to disseminate or abets dissemination of information relating to such digits or figures or combination of digits or figures shall be punishable with imprisonment which may extend to six months and with fine which may extend to one thousand rupees. (2) Where any person is accused of an offence under sub-section (1), any digits or figures or combination of digits or figures in respect of which the offence is alleged to have been committed shall be presumed to relate to Worli Matka gaming or some other form of gaming unless the contrary is proved by the accused.".
Bombay Prevention of Gambling (Gujarat Amendment) Act, 1972_Section 4--> State(s): Gujarat After section 5 of the principal Act, the following section shall be inserted, namely:- "5A. Seizure of register, record of writing by certain police officers. - Where- (i) in any area for which a Commissioner of Police has been appointed, a police officer not below the rank of a Deputy Commissioner of Police, and (it) elsewhere, a police officer not below the rank of a Deputy Superintendent of Police, is of the opinion that any register, record or writing of any kind whatsoever which contains digits or figures or combination of digits or figures relates to Worli Matka gaming or some other form of gaming, he shall be entitled to seize the same, and such register, record or writing shall be presumed to be an instrument of gaming unless it is shown by the person from whom it is seized that it is a register, record or writing of any transaction in connection with a lawful trade, industry, business, profession or vocation or of any lawful personal transaction of any person or it is otherwise not an instrument of gaming.".
Bombay Prevention of Gambling (Gujarat Amendment) Act, 1972_Section 5--> State(s): Gujarat In section 12 of the principal Act, for the words "or with imprisonment" the words "and with imprisonment" shall be substituted. 
