Child Marriage Restraint (Gujarat Amendment) Act, 1963_Section Preamble--> State(s): Gujarat An Act to amend the Child Marriage Restraint Act, 1929. It is hereby enacted in the Fourteenth Year of the Republic of India as follows:-
Child Marriage Restraint (Gujarat Amendment) Act, 1963_Section 1--> State(s): Gujarat (1) This Act may be called the Child Marriage Restraint (Gujarat Amendment) Act, 1963. (2) It shall come into force on such date as the State Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, appoint.
Child Marriage Restraint (Gujarat Amendment) Act, 1963_Section 2--> State(s): Gujarat After section 6 of the Child Marriage Restraint Act, 1929 (hereinafter referred to as "the principal Act"), the following Section shall he inserted, namely:- "7. Offences to be cognisable. - Notwithstanding anything contained in the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1898, an offence punishable under this Act shall be deemed to be a cognisable offence within the meaning of that Code.".
Child Marriage Restraint (Gujarat Amendment) Act, 1963_Section 3--> State(s): Gujarat Section 10 of the principal Act shall be deleted.
Child Marriage Restraint (Gujarat Amendment) Act, 1963_Section 4--> State(s): Gujarat After section 12 of the principal Act, the following sections shall be added, namely:- "13. Child Marriage Prevention Officers. - (1) The State Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, appoint for the whole State or for such part thereof as may be specified in that notification, an officer to be known as the Child Marriage Prevention Officer. (2) It shall be the duty of the Child Marriage Prevention Officer- (i) to prevent marriages being performed in contravention of the provisions of this Act by taking such action under this Act as he deems fit, (ii) to collect evidence for the effective prosecutions of persons contravening provisions of this Act, and (iii) to discharge such other functions as may be assigned to him by the State Government. (3) The State Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, invest the Child Marriage Prevention Officer with such powers of a Police officer as may be specified in the notification and the Child Marriage Prevention Officer shall exercise his powers subject to such limitations and conditions as may be specified in the notification. (4) The State Government may associate with each Child Marriage Prevention Officer a non-official advisory body consisting of not more than five social welfare workers, of whom at least two shall be women workers, known in the area within the jurisdiction of the Officer for the purposes of advising and assisting him in the performance of his functions under this Act. (5) The terms and conditions of appointment of persons on the advisory body shall be such as may be prescribed by rules. 14. Power to make rules. - (1) The State Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, make rules, for the purposes of carrying out the provisions of this Act, (2) In particular and without prejudice to the generality of the foregoing provision, such rules may provide for all matters expressly required or allowed by this Act to be prescribed by rules. (3) The power to make rules conferred by this section is subject to the condition of the rules being made after previous publication. (4) All rules made under this section shall be laid for not less than thirty days before the State Legislature as soon as possible after they are made, and shall be subject to rescission by the State Legislature or to such modifications as the State Legislature may make during the session in which they are so laid, or the session immediately following. (5) Any rescission or modification so made by the State Legislature shall be published in the Official Gazelle and shall thereupon take effect.". 
