Gujarat Co-operative Societies (Amendment) Act, 1983_Section Preamble--> State(s): Gujarat An Act further to amend the Gujarat Co-operative Societies Act, 1961 . It is hereby enacted in the Thirty-fourth Year of the Republic of India as follows:-
Gujarat Co-operative Societies (Amendment) Act, 1983_Section 1--> State(s): Gujarat (1) This Act may be called the Gujarat Co-operative Societies (Amendment) Act, 1983. (2)It shall be deemed to have come into force on the 16th July, 1983.
Gujarat Co-operative Societies (Amendment) Act, 1983_Section 2--> State(s): Gujarat In the Gujarat Co-operative Societies Act, 1961 (Guj. X of 1962) (hereinafter referred to as "the principal Act"), in section 74C, in sub-section (3), after the existing proviso, the following proviso shall be and shall be deemed to have been padded with effect from 7th January, 1981, namely:- "Provided further that it shall be lawful for any body or authority to nominate its representative on a committee of such society where the bye- laws of such society so provide".
Gujarat Co-operative Societies (Amendment) Act, 1983_Section 3--> State(s): Gujarat In the principal Act, in section 80, in sub-section (1):- (a) for the words and brackets, "the State. Government shall have the right to nominate (not more than three) representatives on the committee of such society" the words "the State Government shall, notwithstanding anything contained in the bye-laws of such society, have the right to nominate three representatives on the Committee of such society" shall be substituted. (b) the following Explanation shall be inserted, namely:- "Explanation.-Any nomination of the Registrar or his nominee on the Committee of a society under the bye-laws of such society shall not be construed as nomination of the representative on that Committee in exercise of the right of the State Government under this sub-section".
Gujarat Co-operative Societies (Amendment) Act, 1983_Section 4--> State(s): Gujarat (1) The Gujarat Co-operative Societies (Amendment) Ordinance, 1983 (Guj. Ord. 9 of 1983) is hereby repealed. (2) Notwithstanding such repeal anything done or any action taken under the principal Act as amended by the said Ordinance, shall be deemed to have been done or taken under the principal Act as amended by this Act. 
