Gujarat Local Authorities Laws (Amendment) Act, 2011_Section Preamble--> State(s): Gujarat An Act further to amend to the Bombay Provincial Municipal Corporations Act, 1949, the Gujarat Municipalities Act, 1963 and the Gujarat Panchayats Act, 1993. It is hereby enacted in the Sixty-second Year of the Republic of India as follows:-
Gujarat Local Authorities Laws (Amendment) Act, 2011_Section 1--> State(s): Gujarat This Act may be called the Gujarat Local Authorities Laws (Amendment) Act, 2011.
Gujarat Local Authorities Laws (Amendment) Act, 2011_Section 2--> State(s): Gujarat In the Bombay Provincial Municipal Corporations Act, 1949 (Bom. LIX of 1949) (hereinafter referred to as "the Municipal Corporations Act"), in section 2, after clause (34A), the following clause shall be inserted, namely :- "(34AA) "mobile tower" means a temporary or permanent structure, equipment or instrument erected or installed on land or upon any part of the building or premises for providing telecommunication services;".
Gujarat Local Authorities Laws (Amendment) Act, 2011_Section 3--> State(s): Gujarat In the Municipal Corporations Act, in Chapter IX, after section 108, the following section shall be inserted, namely :- "108A. Audit and technical guidance and supervision over audit:- (1) The accounts of the municipal corporation shall be audited under the provisions of the Gujarat Local Fund Audit Act, 1963 (Guj. XLIX of 1963). (2) Notwithstanding anything contained in this Act, the State Government shall entrust the Comptroller and Auditor General of India the technical guidance and supervision over the audit of the municipal corporation. (3) The State Government shall cause the audit report under the Gujarat Local Fund Audit Act, 1963 along with the report of the Comptroller and Auditor General of India on technical guidance and supervision as referred to in sub-sections (1) and (2), to be laid before the State Legislature.".
Gujarat Local Authorities Laws (Amendment) Act, 2011_Section 4--> State(s): Gujarat In the Municipal Corporations Act, in section 127, in sub-section (I), after clause (b), the following clause shall be inserted, namely :- "(c) a tax on mobile towers:".
Gujarat Local Authorities Laws (Amendment) Act, 2011_Section 5--> State(s): Gujarat In the Municipal Corporations Act, after section 145, the following sub-heading and section shall be inserted, namely :- "Tax on Mobile Towers 145A. Tax on mobile towers:- (1) A tax at the rates not exceeding those prescribed by order in writing by the State Government in this behalf from time to time shall be levied on mobile towers from the person engaged in providing telecommunication services through such mobile towers. (2) The Corporation shall from year to year, in accordance with section 99, determine the rates at which the tax shall be levied.".
Gujarat Local Authorities Laws (Amendment) Act, 2011_Section 6--> State(s): Gujarat In the Gujarat Municipalities Act, 1963 (Guj. 34 of 1964), (hereinafter referred to as "the Municipalities Act"), in section 2, after clause (12A), the following clause shall be inserted, namely :- "(12B) "mobile tower" means a temporary or permanent structure, equipment or instrument erected or installed on land or upon any part of the building or premises for providing telecommunication services;".
Gujarat Local Authorities Laws (Amendment) Act, 2011_Section 7--> State(s): Gujarat In the Municipalities Act, in section 33, for sub-section (1), the following sub-section shall be substituted, namely:- "(1) (a) The term of office of the President and Vice-President of a municipality shall be two and half years. (b) Subject to the other provisions of this section, the President or the Vice- President shall be eligible for reelection. (c) Subject to the other provisions of this section, the Vice-President of a municipality who has completed the term of two and half years on or before the commencement of the Gujarat Local Authorities Laws (Amendment) Act, 2011 (Guj. 21 of 2011), shall continue to hold the office of the Vice-President till the expiry of the term of that municipality.".
Gujarat Local Authorities Laws (Amendment) Act, 2011_Section 8--> State(s): Gujarat In the Municipalities Act (Guj. 34 of 1964), in section 77, after sub-section (3), the following sub-sections shall be inserted, namely:- "(4) Notwithstanding anything contained in the preceding sub-sections, the State Government shall entrust the Comptroller and Auditor General of India the technical guidance and supervision over the audit of the municipality. (5) The State Government shall cause the audit report under the Gujarat Local Fund Audit Act, 1963 (Guj. XLIX of 1963) referred to in sub-section (1) alongwith the report of the Comptroller and Auditor General of India on technical guidance and supervision as referred to in sub-section (4), to be laid before the State Legislature ".
Gujarat Local Authorities Laws (Amendment) Act, 2011_Section 9--> State(s): Gujarat In the Municipalities Act, in section 99, in sub-section (1), after clause (xiv), the following clause shall be inserted, namely:- "(xiv-a) a tax on mobile towers to be levied from the person engaged in providing telecommunication services through such mobile towers;".
Gujarat Local Authorities Laws (Amendment) Act, 2011_Section 10--> State(s): Gujarat In the Gujarat Panchayats Act, 1993 (Guj. 18 of 1993) (hereinafter referred to as 4 "the Panchayats Act"), in section 2, after clause (12), the following clause shall be inserted, namely:- "(12A) "mobile tower" means a temporary or permanent structure, equipment or instrument erected or installed on land or upon any part of the building or premises for providing telecommunication services;".
Gujarat Local Authorities Laws (Amendment) Act, 2011_Section 11--> State(s): Gujarat In the Panchayats Act, in section 121, after sub-section (1), the following sub-sections shall be inserted, namely :- "(1A) Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section (1), the State Government shall entrust the Comptroller and Auditor General of India the technical guidance and supervision over the audit of the village panchayat. (1B) The State Government shall cause the audit report under the Gujarat Local Fund Audit Act, 1963 (Guj. XLIX of 1963) referred to in sub-section (1) alongwith the report of the Comptroller and Auditor General of India on technical guidance and supervision as referred to in sub-section (1 A), to be laid before the State Legislature.".
Gujarat Local Authorities Laws (Amendment) Act, 2011_Section 12--> State(s): Gujarat In the Panchyats Act, section 143 shall be numbered as sub-section (1) of that section and after sub-section (1) as so renumbered, the following sub-sections shall be inserted, namely:- "(2) Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section (1), the State Government shall entrust the Comptroller and Auditor General of India the technical guidance and supervision over the audit of the taluka panchayat. (3) The State Government shall cause the audit report under the Gujarat Local Fund Audit Act, 1963 (Guj. XLIX of 1963) referred to in sub-section (1) alongwith the report of the Comptroller and Auditor General of India on technical guidance and supervision as referred to in sub-section (2), to be laid before the State Legislature ".
Gujarat Local Authorities Laws (Amendment) Act, 2011_Section 13--> State(s): Gujarat In the Panchayats Act, in section 166, after sub-section (2), the following sub-sections shall be inserted, namely:- "(3) Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section (2), the State Government shall entrust the Comptroller and Auditor General of India the technical guidance and supervision over the audit of the district panchayat. (4) The State Government shall cause the audit report under the Gujarat Local Fund Audit Act, 1963 (Guj. XLIX of 1963) referred to in sub-section (2) alongwith the report of the Comptroller and Auditor General of India on technical guidance and supervision as referred to in sub-section (3), to be laid before the State Legislature ".
Gujarat Local Authorities Laws (Amendment) Act, 2011_Section 14--> State(s): Gujarat In the Panchayats Act. in section 200,- (1) in sub-section (1), after clause (i), the following clause shall be inserted, namely:- "(i-a) a tax on mobile towers;"; (2) after sub-section (4), and the proviso thereunder, the following sub-section shall be inserted, namely:- "(4A) a tax on mobile towers referred to in clause (i-a) of sub-section (1) shall be levied from the person engaged in providing telecommunication services through such mobile towers.". 
