Gujarat Carriage of Goods Taxation (Amendment) Act, 1986_Section Preamble--> State(s): Gujarat AN ACT further to amend the Gujarat Carriage of Goods Taxation Act, 1962. It is hereby enacted in the Thirty-sixth Year of the Republic of India as follows :-
Gujarat Carriage of Goods Taxation (Amendment) Act, 1986_Section 1--> State(s): Gujarat (1) This Act may be called the Gujarat Carriage of Goods Taxation (Amendment) Act, 1986. (2) It shall be deemed to have come into force on the 28th. October, 1986.
Gujarat Carriage of Goods Taxation (Amendment) Act, 1986_Section 2--> State(s): Gujarat In the Gujarat Carriage of Goods Taxation Act, 1962 (hereinafter referred to as "the principal Act"), after section 13, the following section shall be inserted, namely "13A. Liability or operator to pay interest:- Where an operator does not pay the tax on or before the date prescribed under section 8 or, as the case may be, the date prescribed under sub-section (2) of section 12 there shall be paid by such operator for period commencing immediately after 'the prescribed date and ending on the date of payment of the tax, simple interest at the rate of twenty-four per cent par annum on the amount of tax not so paid or a less amount thereof, remaining unpaid during such period.".
Gujarat Carriage of Goods Taxation (Amendment) Act, 1986_Section 3--> State(s): Gujarat In the principal Act, in section 14, in sub-section (2), for the words "tax or penalty or both are due", the words "tax, penalty or interest is due"shall be substituted.
Gujarat Carriage of Goods Taxation (Amendment) Act, 1986_Section 4--> State(s): Gujarat In the principal Act, in section 18, for the words and brackets "the amount of tax and penalty (if any)"occuring at two places, the words and brackets "the amount of tax, penalty and interest (if any)"shall be substituted.
Gujarat Carriage of Goods Taxation (Amendment) Act, 1986_Section 5--> State(s): Gujarat In the principal Act, in section 31, in sub-section (1),- (1) for the words "The State Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, exempt", the words "The State Government may, subject to the provisions of any rules made in that behalf, by notification in the Official Gazette exempt"shall be substituted ; (2) in clause (c), the word "or"occuring at the end shall be deleted ; (3) in clause (d), the word "or"shall be inserted at the end ; and (4) after clause (d), the following clause shall be added, namely:- "(e) goods carried in any class of private goods vehicles or public goods vehicles, other than those filling under clause (c), or goods carried in any goods vehicles belonging to any class of persons.".
Gujarat Carriage of Goods Taxation (Amendment) Act, 1986_Section 6--> State(s): Gujarat (1) The Gujarat Carriage of Goods Taxation (Amendment) Ordinance, 1985 is hereby repealed. (2) Notwithstanding such Repeal, anything done or any action taken under the principal Act as amended by the said Ordinance shall be deemed to have been done or taken under the principal Act as amended by this Act. 
