Kadi Varva Vishwavidyalaya (Amendment) Act, 2012_Section Preamble--> State(s): Gujarat An Act further to amend the Kadi Sarva Vishwavidyalaya Act, 2007. It is hereby enacted in the Sixty-third Year of the Republic of India as follows:-
Kadi Varva Vishwavidyalaya (Amendment) Act, 2012_Section 1--> State(s): Gujarat (1) This Act may be called the Kadi Varva Vishwavidyalaya (Amendment) Act, 2012. (2) It shall come into force on such date as the State Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, appoint.
Kadi Varva Vishwavidyalaya (Amendment) Act, 2012_Section 2--> State(s): Gujarat In the Kadi Sarva Vishwavidyalaya Act, 2007 (Guj. 21 of 2007) (hereinafter referred to as "the principal Act"), in section 2, for clause (k), the following clause shall be substituted, namely:- "(k) "Schedule" means Schedules appended to this Act;".
Kadi Varva Vishwavidyalaya (Amendment) Act, 2012_Section 3--> State(s): Gujarat In the principal Act, in section 3,- (1) in sub-section (4), for the words "the Schedule", the word and figure "Schedule I" shall be substituted; (2) after sub-section (4), the following sub-section shall be inserted, namely:- "(4A) The colleges and institutions specified in Schedule II, affiliated to and enjoying the privileges of the Gujarat Technological University or, as the case may be, the Hemchandracharya North Gujarat University immediately before the commencement of the Kadi Sarva Vishwavidyalaya (Amendment) Act, 2012 (Guj. 3 of 2012) shall cease to be affiliated from the Gujarat Technological University or, as the case may be, the Hemchandracharya North Gujarat University and shall be deemed to be withdrawn from such privileges from the date of the commencement of the Kadi Sarva Vishwavidyalaya (Amendment) Act, 2012 (Guj. 3 of 2012) and shall be deemed to be admitted to the privileges of the University, and all such colleges and institutions shall be the constituent colleges and institutions of the University.".
Kadi Varva Vishwavidyalaya (Amendment) Act, 2012_Section 4--> State(s): Gujarat In the principal Act, in section 7, in clauses (i) and (vii), the words "within the University campus" shall be deleted.
Kadi Varva Vishwavidyalaya (Amendment) Act, 2012_Section 5--> State(s): Gujarat In the principal Act, in section 39, for the words "the Schedule", the word and figure "Schedule I" shall be substituted.
Kadi Varva Vishwavidyalaya (Amendment) Act, 2012_Section 6--> State(s): Gujarat In the principal Act, after section 39, the following section shall be inserted, namely:- "39A. Completion of courses of students in colleges affiliated to Gujarat Technological University or Hemchandracharya North Gujarat University:- Notwithstanding anything contained in this Act or the Regulations, any student of the colleges or institutions specified in Schedule II and affiliated to the Gujarat technological University or, as the case may be, the Hemchandracharya North Gujarat University, who immediately before the commencement of the Kadi Sarva Vishwavidyalaya (Amendment) Act, 2012 (Guj. 3 of 2012) was studying or was eligible for any examination of the Gujarat Technological University or, as the case may be, the Hemchandracharya North Gujarat University shall be permitted to complete his course in preparation therefore, and the University shall provide for such period and in such manner as may be prescribed for the instruction, teaching, training and examination of such students, in accordance with the courses of studies of the Gujarat Technological University or as the case may be, the Hemchandracharya North Gujarat University.".
Kadi Varva Vishwavidyalaya (Amendment) Act, 2012_Section 7--> State(s): Gujarat In the principal Act, the existing Schedule shall be renumbered as] Schedule I, and after Schedule I as so renumbered, the following Schedule shall be added, namely:- "Schedule II (See sub-section (4A) of section 3 and section 39A) Sr. No. Name of the Colleges/ Institutions Courses being offered Affiliated to 1 2 3 4 1. Leelaben Dashrathbhai Ramdas Patel (LDRP) Institute of Technology and Research, Gandhinagar. Bachelor of Engineering, Master of Engineering, Master of Business Administration (M.B.A.), Master of Computer Application (M.C.A.) Gujarat Technological University 2. S.V. Institute of Computer Studies, Kadi. Master of Computer Application (M.C.A.) Gujarat Technological University 3. S.V. Institute of Management, Kadi Master of Business Administration (M.B.A.) Gujarat Technological University 4. Narsinhbhai Patel College of Computer Studies and Management, Kadi. Bachelor of Business Administration (B.B.A.), Bachelor of Computer Application (B.C.A.) and Post- Graduate Diploma in Computer Application (PGDCA) Hemchandracharya North Gujarat University 5. S.V. College of Education, Kadi Bachelor of Education (B.Ed.) (Gujarati Medium) Hemchandracharya North Gujarat University. 6. Acharya Shri Manubhai J. Patel M.Ed. College, Kadi. Master of Education (M.Ed.) Hemchandracharya North Gujarat University". 
