Raksha Shakti University (Amendment) Act, 2013_Section Preamble--> State(s): Gujarat An Act further to amend the Raksha Shakti University Act, 2009. It is hereby enacted in the Sixty-fourth Year of the Republic of India as follows:-
Raksha Shakti University (Amendment) Act, 2013_Section 1--> State(s): Gujarat (1) This Act may be called the Raksha Shakti University (Amendment) Act, 2013.1 (2) It shall come into force on such date as the State Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, appoint. Received the assent of the Governor on 10th April, 2013.
Raksha Shakti University (Amendment) Act, 2013_Section 2--> State(s): Gujarat In the Raksha Shakti University Act, 2009 (Guj. 14 of 2009) (hereinafter referred to as "the principal Act"), in section 2, after clause (ii), the following clause shall be inserted, namely:- "(ii-a) "Chairman" means Chairman of the University appointed under section 7A;".
Raksha Shakti University (Amendment) Act, 2013_Section 3--> State(s): Gujarat In the principal Act, in section 3, in sub-section (2), for the words "The Director General,", the words "The Chairman, the Director General," shall be substituted.
Raksha Shakti University (Amendment) Act, 2013_Section 4--> State(s): Gujarat In the principal Act, in section 5, for clause (iv), the following clause shall he substituted, namely:- "(iv) to develop, conduct and review course curriculum, relating to security matters and. other related subjects of knowledge with the objective of promoting scholarship and excellence;".
Raksha Shakti University (Amendment) Act, 2013_Section 5--> State(s): Gujarat In the principal Act, in section 7, for clauses (ii) and (iii), the following shall be substituted, namely:- "(ii) to provide for instruction, training and research in such branches of knowledge or learning pertaining to all aspects of and public participation for greater benefits to society; (iii) to prescribe and conduct courses and curricula and provide for flexibility in the education systems and delivery methodologies including electronic and distance learning;".
Raksha Shakti University (Amendment) Act, 2013_Section 6--> State(s): Gujarat In the principal Act, after section 7, the following section shall be inserted, namely:- "7A. Chairman- (1) (a) The Chairman of the University shall be appointed by the State Government, who shall be the person of eminence and has excelled in any field of governance, policing academics, judiciary, defence studies or internal security. (b) The Chairman shall not have attained the age or seventy years on the date of nomination or re-nomination. (2) The Chairman shall hold office for a period of three years and shall be eligible for re-nomination for one more term only. (3) The other terms and conditions of appointment of the Chairman shall be such as may be determined by the State Government. (4) Where a vacancy in the office of the Chairman occurs on account of death, resignation or otherwise, the State Government shall appoint immediately suitable person to be the Chairman in accordance with the provision of sub-section (1). (5) The Chairman may resign from his office by writing under his hand addressed to the State Government and such resignation shall take effect from the date of acceptance by the State Government. (6) The Chairman shall have, subject to the provisions of this Act, power to cause an inspection or review of matters relating to estates, buildings, infrastructure and other systems maintained by the University."
Raksha Shakti University (Amendment) Act, 2013_Section 7--> State(s): Gujarat In the principal Act, in section 8, for sub-sections (1) and (2), the following sub-sections shall be substituted, namely:- "(1) (a) The Director General of the University shall be appointed by the State Government on the recommendations of the Search Committee consisting of- (1) an eminent educationist; (ii) an eminent person who is associated with and has excelled in the field of security; (iii) one Vice-Chancellor or any of the Universities of the State of Gujarat (b) The State Government shall appoint the Search. Committee and nominate one of its members as the Chairman of the Search Committee. (2) The-Director General shall be appointed from amongst the persons who,- (i) have achieved distinction and excellence in the field of security and defence or related fields with proven record of his contribution; (ii) have not attained the age of sixty-five years on the date of nomination or re- nomination.".
Raksha Shakti University (Amendment) Act, 2013_Section 8--> State(s): Gujarat In the, principal Act, in section 9,- (1) sub-section (1) shall be deleted; (2) in sub-section (2), in clause (i), the word "Board," shall be deleted.
Raksha Shakti University (Amendment) Act, 2013_Section 9--> State(s): Gujarat In the principal Act, in section11, before clause (i), the following clause shall be inserted namely:- "(i-a) The Chairman,".
Raksha Shakti University (Amendment) Act, 2013_Section 10--> State(s): Gujarat In the principal Act, in section 12, in sub-section (1),(1) for clause (i), the following clauses shall be substituted, namely:- "(i-a) the, Chairman, who shall be the Chairman of the Board; (i) the Director General;"; (2) for clause (x), the following clauses shall be substituted, namely:- "(x) five members from amongst the persons who are associated with and have excelled in the field of defence or education or public services, to be nominated by the State Government; (xi) one of the Deans by rotation, to be nominated, by the Director General.".
Raksha Shakti University (Amendment) Act, 2013_Section 11--> State(s): Gujarat In the principal Act, in section 16,- (1) in sub-section (1), after clause (vii), the following clause shall be added, namely:- "(viii) three eminent academicians, to be nominated by the State Government;"; (2) in sub-section (3), for the words, brackets and figures "clauses (iii), (iv) and (vii)", the words, brackets and figures "clauses (iii), (iv), (vii) and (viii)" shall be. substituted.",
Raksha Shakti University (Amendment) Act, 2013_Section 12--> State(s): Gujarat In the principal Act, in section 20, for sub-section (1), the following sub-section shall be substituted, namely: - "(1) The Deputy Director General of the University shall be appointed by the State Government by transfer or deputation from amongst the serving senior officers of the State Government in the fields of security or public service or administration.".
Raksha Shakti University (Amendment) Act, 2013_Section 13--> State(s): Gujarat In the principal Act, section 25 shall be deleted.
Raksha Shakti University (Amendment) Act, 2013_Section 14--> State(s): Gujarat In the principal Act, in section 26, for the words "The. Government shall pay", the words "The Government shall give" shall be substituted.
Raksha Shakti University (Amendment) Act, 2013_Section 15--> State(s): Gujarat In the principal Act, in section 29, sub-section (2) shall be deleted.
Raksha Shakti University (Amendment) Act, 2013_Section 16--> State(s): Gujarat ln the principal Act, in section 32, for the words "such reports,", the words "such annual reports," shall be substituted.
Raksha Shakti University (Amendment) Act, 2013_Section 17--> State(s): Gujarat In the principal Act, in section 39, after the words "from the University,", the words "the Chairman" shall be inserted. 
