Bihar Land disputes Resolution (Amendment) Act, 2015_Section Preamble--> State(s): Bihar An Act to amend the Bihar Land Disputes Resolution Act, 2009 (Bihar Act 4, 2010) Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Bihar in the sixty sixth year of the Republic of India as follows:-
Bihar Land disputes Resolution (Amendment) Act, 2015_Section 1--> State(s): Bihar (1) This Act may be called The Bihar Land Disputes Resolution (Amendment) Act 2015 (2) It shall extend to the whole of the State of Bihar. (3) It shall come into force at once.
Bihar Land disputes Resolution (Amendment) Act, 2015_Section 2--> State(s): Bihar (1)The following words shall be inserted before the words "under the Acts mentioned under schedule-1 of the Act." and after the words "raiyati rights have accrued" used in sub-section (e) of section 2 of the said Act:- "Or under any Act or policy of the State or Central Government providing for settlement of government land to the persons of any specified category." (2) The following words shall be inserted before the words "under the Acts mentioned under schedule-1 of the Act." and after the words "raiyati rights have accrued" used in sub-section (f) of section 2 of the said Act. :- "Or under any act or policy of the State or Central Government providing for settlement of government land to the persons of any specified category."
Bihar Land disputes Resolution (Amendment) Act, 2015_Section 3--> State(s): Bihar The following words shall be inserted before the words "under any of the Acts contained in schedule-1 to this Act" and after the words "with any by the competent authority" used in sub-section (1) (a) of section 4 of the said Act, 2009 :- "Or under any Act or policy of the State or Central government providing for settlement of Government land to the persons of any specified category."
Bihar Land disputes Resolution (Amendment) Act, 2015_Section 4--> State(s): Bihar The following new section 15A shall be added after Section 15 of the said Act, 2009:- "15 A (1). Punishment for obstruction in execution or willful disobedience or noncompliance of the final order - Whoever obstructs, disobeys or fails to comply with the directions and findings contained in the final order passed under the Act shall be punishable with imprisonment for a term which may extend up to three years, and shall also be liable to fine up to five thousand rupees. (2) In case of such person having been previously convicted of an offence under this section, shall be punishable with imprisonment for a term which may extend to five years, and with fine which may extend to ten thousand rupees. (3) Not withstanding anything contained in the code of Criminal Procedure 1973, the aforesaid offence shall be deemed to be a cognizable and non-bailable offence within the meaning of the said Code. (4) The incidence of the aforesaid offence shall be reported in accordance with the provision contained in the said Code by the competent authority or by the victim with the approval of the competent authority. By order of the Governor of Bihar, Manoj Kumar, Joint Secretary to Government. 
