Bihar Municipal (Amendment) Act, 2011_Section Preamble--> State(s): Bihar An Act to Amend the Bihar Municipal Act, 2007 (Bihar Act 11, 2007). Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Bihar in the sixty-second year of the Republic of India as follows: -
Bihar Municipal (Amendment) Act, 2011_Section 1--> State(s): Bihar (1) This Act may be called the Bihar Municipal (Amendment) Act, 20111 . (2) It shall extend to the whole of the State of Bihar. (3) It shall come into force at once. Published in Bihar Gazette (Extra ordinary) No. 32, dated 23rd January, 2012.
Bihar Municipal (Amendment) Act, 2011_Section 2--> State(s): Bihar In Section 2 of the said Act After sub-section (110) the following new sub-section (111) shall be added namely - "(111) "user charges" means charges levied by the municipality under Section 128 of the Act. The words 'user charges' 'service charges' shall be used interchangeably in the Act and Rules and Regulations made thereunder and shall mean the same. "
Bihar Municipal (Amendment) Act, 2011_Section 3--> State(s): Bihar (1) In sub-clause (i) of clause (a) of sub-section (1) of Section 36 of the said Act the words "or non Government officers, Managers, Administrators or Engineers who have experience/specialization in urban sector management" shall be added after the words "Bihar Administrative Service." (2) In sub-clause (ii) of Clause (a) of sub-Section (1) of Section 36 of the said Act, after the words "or a member of Bihar Account Service", the words " or a Chartered Accountant under the Chartered Accountants Act, 1949, or a Cost and Management Accountant under the Cost and Works Accountants Act, 1959. " shall be added. (3) After sub clause (vi) of clause (b) of sub-section (1) of Section 36 the following proviso shall be added after the second proviso: - "Provided further that the Government may appoint a Non-Government person who has experience/specialization in urban sector management and administration who can be a qualified Manager/Administrator/Engineer on the post of Municipal Executive Officer even in Municipal Council and Nagar Panchayat. (4) After sub-clause (vi) of clause (b) of sub-section (1) of Section 36 the following proviso shall be added after the third proviso, "Provided also that the Government may by order to the Municipalities subtract, add, change the number and structure of posts, abolish a post or posts, determine and abolish cadres, create new cadres, restructure their administrative structure and establishment or can give any other direction in this regard which shall be binding on the Urban Local Bodies. "
Bihar Municipal (Amendment) Act, 2011_Section 4--> State(s): Bihar Sub-clause (i) of Section 69(2)(b) of the said Act shall be substituted by the following: - (i) "The Divisional Commissioner of the Division having territorial jurisdiction over the concerned Municipality, shall be the chairperson of the Committee."
Bihar Municipal (Amendment) Act, 2011_Section 5--> State(s): Bihar In Section 71 of the said Act, after the words "the State Government shall determine" the words "and communicate to the Municipality within three months of determination", shall be added.
Bihar Municipal (Amendment) Act, 2011_Section 6--> State(s): Bihar (1) In sub-clause (ii) of Clause (k) of sub-Section 1 of Section 127, after the words "plying on a public street" the words "or as may be provided for under orders by the State Government" shall be added. (2) Clause (ii) of sub-Section (4) of Section 127 of the Bihar Municipal Act, 2007 regarding determining the type of a road on which a holding is located, shall be read as sub-section "(2)", rather than (ii) (3) In Clause (ii) of sub-section (7) of Section 127 in the English version of the Bihar Municipal Act, 2007, the word "commuted" shall be replaced by the word 'calculated'. (4) Sub-Section (10) of Section 127 of the Bihar Municipal Act, 2007 shall be renumbered as (12) and new sub-sections (10) and (11) shall be added as under: - "(10) The State Government may provide differential methods for calculation of the annual rental value of tenanted properties and certain categories of non-residential holdings from among those mentioned in clause (d) and (e) of sub-section (4)(1) of Section 127 of this Act." "(11) (i) Those portions of the holdings/buildings which are places, centres and institutions of spiritual and religious nature are used for commercial purposes, office buildings, boarding and/or lodging facilities whether free of charge or where fee or donation is charged, shall be charged property tax, as per the category to which they belong. (ii) All hutments or dwelling units situated in slums having a total plinth area of less than 250 square feet shall be exempt from payment of Property Tax. " (5) The following new sub-section (13) shall be added in Section 127 of the Bihar Municipal Act, 2007 as under: - "(13)(i) The Municipality shall carry out upward revision of rental value of holdings under Section 7(i) once in every five years and through a public notice, inform all owners of holdings and assesses about the change in the method of assessment on account of such revision. (ii) The Municipality shall also reclassify the roads on which holdings are situated once in every five years and take it into consideration for determining the rental value of holdings." (6) In English version of Bihar Municipal Act, 2007, in sub-section 7(ii) the words "sub-rule (1)" shall be replaced by "clause (i)"
Bihar Municipal (Amendment) Act, 2011_Section 7--> State(s): Bihar "128A" Establishment of an Urban Services Charge Advisory Board. (1) The State Government may establish an Urban Services Charges Advisory Board to advise the levying of User Charges by the Municipality. (2) Composition of the Board, qualification of Chairpersons and members and functions to be performed by the Board shall be determined by the State Government under orders (3) Any property that has adopted the technique and structure of rainwater harvesting may be given relief to a determined percentage from the property tax in the manner prescribed by the State Government by order".
Bihar Municipal (Amendment) Act, 2011_Section 8--> State(s): Bihar The Following new sub-section (3) shall be added after sub-section (2) of Section 138, namely - "(3) If two or more owners of separate but adjoining holdings apply jointly or through a promoter/developer to the Chief Municipal Officer for amalgamation of their holdings for construction of Apartment, such permission, on due enquiry, can be permitted and the persons whose holdings get amalgamated shall be jointly treated as landowners: Provided once amalgamation is allowed and takes place and agreement with promoter/developer has been signed for construction of an apartment deamalgamation will not be permitted in any case.
Bihar Municipal (Amendment) Act, 2011_Section 9--> State(s): Bihar (1) In the caption of Chapter XIX of the Bihar Municipal Act, 2007, after the words "Recovery of Taxes" following words shall be added, namely- "and user charges" (2) In sub-title "A. Recovery of Taxes by Municipality" in Chapter XIX after the words " Recovery of Taxes" following shall be added, namely - "and user charges" (3) In Section 155, of the Bihar Municipal Act, 2007, after the core's "Manner of recovery of taxes" following words shall be added, namely- "and user charges" (4) In Section 155, after the words " any tax" following words shall be added namely- "and user charges" (5) In Clause (c) of Section 155, of the Bihar Municipal Act, 2007 the word "distrait" shall be replaced by the word "seizure" (6) In Section 155, The following new Clause (h) shall be added, after clause (g) namely- "(h)" by directing the owner of the holding or the assessee through advertisement in two local newspapers to do self assessment of property tax and pay the same by such date and in such manner as prescribed under Rules and Regulations". (7) In Clause (b) at Section 155 after the words "by serving a notice of demand, "The words" on failure of the owner of holding or the assessee to pay the tax due by 30th June of each financial year" shall be added, (8) After Clause (b) of Section 155, The following new Clause (bb) shall be added, namely, "(bb) by discontinuing municipal services such as water supply, sewerage, and solid waste management after giving seven day's Notice to the defaulter"
Bihar Municipal (Amendment) Act, 2011_Section 10--> State(s): Bihar (1) In the sub-title of Section 156, the words "and user charges" shall be added after the words 'of taxes'. (2) In Sub-section (1) of Section 156 of the said Act, the words "user charges" shall be added after the words 'any tax'. (3) In sub-section (2) of Section 156 of the Act, after the words "If any amount due" the words "of taxes and user charges" shall be added. (4) Sub-Section (2) of Section 156 of the Act shall be substituted by the following, namely: - "(2) The date on which payment of taxes and user charges are due, the date and manner in which they shall be paid and the amount of rebate or penalty thereon shall be prescribed under Rules. "
Bihar Municipal (Amendment) Act, 2011_Section 11--> State(s): Bihar (i) In sub-section (1) of Section 157 of the Bihar Municipal Act, 2007, a new clause (d) shall be added as namely, "(d) Property Tax to be paid on the basis of self-assessment as per Section 155(A) of the Act." (ii) In Section 157 of the Bihar Municipal Act, 2007, after the words "when any tax", new words shall be added, namely - "and user charges" (iii) In proviso of Section 157 of the Bihar Municipal Act, 2007, after the words "of recovery of any tax" the following words shall be added, namely - "and user charges"
Bihar Municipal (Amendment) Act, 2011_Section 12--> State(s): Bihar (1) In Section 158 of the said Act, after the words "Regulations regarding payment and recovery of tax" the words "and user charges" shall be added, (2) In Section 158, after the words "To ensure payment and recovery of its tax" following words shall be added, namely- "and user charges" (3) In Clause (b) of Section 158 of the said Act, after the words "recovery of tax" the words "and user charges" shall be added. (4) In Clause (c) of Section 158 at the said Act, after the words "recovery of tax" the words "and user charges" shall be added. (5) In Clause (f) of Section 158 of the said Act, after the words "recovery of tax", the words "and user charges" shall be added.
Bihar Municipal (Amendment) Act, 2011_Section 13--> State(s): Bihar "274A The District Planning Committee and the Metropolitan Committee shall prepare development plan as provided for in Section 274 and submit the same to the State Government for approval. The State Government shall approve the plan with or without modification as early as possible, but not later than 12 months from the date of submission". 
