Nalanda Open University (Amendment) Act, 2013_Section Preamble--> State(s): Bihar An Act to amend the Nalanda Open University Act, 1995 (Bihar Act 11,1995) WHEREAS, in the educational interest of the State it is most expedient to make the entire provisions of the appointment on the posts of Vice- Chancellor and Pro Vice-Chancellor in the Universities of the State in consonance with the prescribed standards of University Grants Commission; and in conformity with the provisions laid down in the various regulations issued by the University Grants Commission. AND, WHEREAS, transparency and harmony in the matter of appointment of the Vice Chancellors and Pro Vice-Chancellor is essential; AND, WHEREAS, in the past appointment of Vice Chancellors and Pro-Vice Chancellors have been made without effective consultation with the State Government. AND, WHEREAS, the functioning of Vice Chancellor and Pro-Vice Chancellor appointed vide various notifications have been stayed by the Hon'ble Supreme Court. AND, WHEREAS, selection of Vice Chancellors and Pro Vice-Chancellors through search committee has been envisaged in the University Grants Commission Regulation 2010 and as amended Regulation 2013. AND, WHEREAS, it expedient in the interest of Higher Education that Regular Vice Chancellor and Pro-Vice Chancellor can be appointed at the earliest in accordance with the norms and standard of University Grants Commission; Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Bihar in the sixty fourth year of the Republic of India as follows:-
Nalanda Open University (Amendment) Act, 2013_Section 1--> State(s): Bihar (1) This Act may be called Nalanda Open University (Amendment) Act, 2013. (2) It shall extend to the whole of the State of Bihar. (3) It shall come into force at once.
Nalanda Open University (Amendment) Act, 2013_Section 2--> State(s): Bihar In the Nalanda Open University Act 1995 (Bihar Act 11, 1995) sub section (1) of Section 11 shall be substituted by the following, namely :- "(1) (i) Persons of the highest level of competence, integrity, morals and institutional commitment are to be appointed as Vice-Chancellors. The Vice-Chancellor to be appointed should be a distinguished academician, with a minimum of ten years of experience as Professor in a University system or ten years of experience in an equivalent position in a reputed research and / or academic administrative organization. (ii) The selection of Vice-Chancellor should be through proper identification of a Panel of 3-5 names by a Search Committee through a public notification or nomination or a talent search process or in combination. The members of the above Search Committee shall be persons of eminence in the sphere of higher education and shall not be connected in any manner with the University concerned or its colleges. While preparing the panel, the search committee must give proper weightage to academic excellence, exposure to the higher education system in the country and abroad, and adequate experience in academic and administrative governance to be given in writing along with the panel to be submitted to the Chancellor. (iii) Following shall be the constitution of the Search Committee. (a) A member nominated by the Chancellor, who shall be an eminent Scholar / Academician of national repute or a recipient of Padma Award in the field of education and shall be the Chairman. (b) The Director or Head of an institute or organization of national repute, such as, Indian Institute of Technology, Indian Institute of Science, Indian Space Research Organization, National Law University or National Research Laboratory or Vice-Chancellor of a statutory University nominated by the Chancellor as Member. (c) A member nominated by the State Government who shall be an eminent Academician and have full knowledge of the academic structure and problems of higher education of the State."
Nalanda Open University (Amendment) Act, 2013_Section 3--> State(s): Bihar In the Nalanda Open University Act 1995 (Bihar Act 11, 1995) sub section (1) of Section 13A shall be substituted by the following namely :- "(1) The Pro Vice-Chancellor shall be appointed by the Chancellor in consultation with the State Government in the same manner as prescribed for appointment of Vice-Chancellor." 
