Bihar Panchayat Raj (Amendment) Act, 2015_Section Preamble--> State(s): Bihar An Act to Amend the Bihar Panchayat Raj Act, 2006 (Act 6 of 2006) Be it enacted in the sixty sixth year of the Republic of India by the Legislature of the State of Bihar as follows:-
Bihar Panchayat Raj (Amendment) Act, 2015_Section 1--> State(s): Bihar (1) This Act may be called the Bihar Panchayat Raj (Amendment) Act, 2015. (2) It shall extend to the whole of the State of Bihar. (3) It shall come into force at once excluding the amendment made by section 15 of this Amendment Act, 2015 and the amendment made by Section 15 shall come into force with effect from 1st January, 2016.
Bihar Panchayat Raj (Amendment) Act, 2015_Section 2--> State(s): Bihar After clause (an) of section 2 of the said Act, 2006 the following clause (ao) shall be added : - "(ao) "Ward Sabha" means the Ward Sabha constituted under sub-section (1) of section 170 A."
Bihar Panchayat Raj (Amendment) Act, 2015_Section 3--> State(s): Bihar After clause (d) of section 7 of the said Act, 2006 the following clauses (e) and (f) shall be added :- "(e) Recommendations of Ward Sabhas. (f) If in the opinion of Gram Sabha any important scheme related to a Ward has not been included in the proceeding of the Ward Sabha, the Gram Sabha may consider on such schemes also."
Bihar Panchayat Raj (Amendment) Act, 2015_Section 4--> State(s): Bihar After clause (h) of section 9 of the said Act, 2006 the following clause (i) shall be added : - "(i) Discussing and recommending appropriate action to the Gram Panchayat with regard to the reports/recommendations of Ward Sabhas."
Bihar Panchayat Raj (Amendment) Act, 2015_Section 5--> State(s): Bihar After Section 16 of the said Act, the following new section 16 A shall be inserted:- "16 A. Allowances to the Mukhiya, Up-Mukhiya and others members :- Mukhiya, Up-Mukhiya and others members of the Gram Panchayat shall be entitled to such allowances as may be prescribed."
Bihar Panchayat Raj (Amendment) Act, 2015_Section 6--> State(s): Bihar After Chapter-VIII and Section 170 in the Bihar Panchayat Raj Act, 2006, the following new Chapter IX and new section 170 A shall be inserted :- "Chapter IX WARD SABHA 170A (1) Subject to the general orders of the Government, a ward Sabha shall be organized in each territorial electoral constituency of the wards within the Gram Panchayat. The Ward Sabha shall meet once in three months. The elected member of Gram Panchayat, who represents the Ward, shall convene the meetings of Ward Sabha as per prescribed procedure and preside over the meeting. Every voter residing in the electoral territory of the Ward shall be a member of that Ward Sabha. (2) If the Gram Panchayat member responsible to convene the meeting fails to convene the meeting of the Ward Sabha, the Mukhiya of the Gram Panchayat or the Up-Mukhiya, if authorised by the Mukhiya, shall convene the meeting and preside over it. (3) The quorum for the meeting of a Ward Sabha shall be present with the presence of the members of one tenth of the total number of members of the Ward Sabha or fifty members. As far as possible not less than thirty percent of the voters attending the Ward Sabha, shall be women. As far as possible persons belonging to the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes may be represented in the Ward Sabha in proportion to their population in the Ward Sabha. (4) Ward Sabha shall, subject to such rules as may be prescribed, exercise the following powers and discharge the following functions :- (a) to generate proposals and determine the priority of schemes and development programmes to be implemented in the area of the Ward Sabha and forward the same to place it before the Gram Sabha for inclusion in Gram Panchayat development plan ; (b) to identify the most eligible persons from the area of Ward Sabha for beneficiary oriented schemes on the basis of criteria fixed; (c) to verify the eligibility of persons getting various kinds of welfare assistance from Government such as pensions and subsidies ; (d) to get information from the Gram Panchayat on the rationale of every decision of the Gram Panchayat concerning the area of the Ward Sabha ; (e) to provide and mobilize voluntary labour and contributions in cash and kind for development work and supervise such development works through volunteer teams ; (f) to make efforts to ensure that the members of Ward Sabha pay taxes and fees (if any) to the Gram Panchayat ; (g) to suggest, on the request of Mukhiya, the location of streetlights, street or community water taps, public sanitation units, and such other public amenity schemes within the area of the Ward Sabha ; (h) to impart awareness on matters of public interest such as cleanliness, preservation of the environment and prevention of pollution ; (i) to assist the employees of the Gram Panchayat in sanitation arrangements in the area of Ward Sabha and render voluntary service in the removal of garbage ; (j) to promote programme of adult education within the area of Ward Sabha ; (k) to assist the activities of public health centers in the area of Ward Sabha especially in disease prevention and family welfare and to create arrangements to quickly report the incidence of epidemics and natural calamities ; (l) to promote harmony and unity among various groups of people in the area of the Ward Sabha and to arrange cultural festivals and sports meets to give expression to the talents of the people of the locality ; and (m) to exercise such other powers and discharge such other functions as may be prescribed. (5) The procedure for convening and conducting the meetings of the Ward Sabha shall be such as may be prescribed. (6) Every meeting of a Ward Sabha shall be presided over by the ward member of the Gram Panchayat elected from the area of the concerned Ward and in his absence by the Mukhiya of the Gram Panchayat or the Up-Mukhiya authorised by the Mukhiya. (7) All resolutions in respect of any issue in the meeting of the Ward Sabha shall be passed by a majority of the members present and voting in the meeting of the Ward Sabha."
Bihar Panchayat Raj (Amendment) Act, 2015_Section 7--> State(s): Bihar (1) The following sentence shall be added at the end of the first proviso of clause (i) of sub-section (4) of section 18 :- "Such a no confidence motion may be brought only once in the whole tenure of Mukhiya." (2) The second proviso of clause (i) of sub-section (4) of section 18 is hereby deleted. (3) The following shall be added in the first proviso of clause (ii) of sub-section (4) of section 18 :- "Such a no confidence motion may be brought only once in the whole tenure of Up- Mukhiya." (4) The second proviso in clause (ii) of sub-section (4) of section 18 shall be deleted.
Bihar Panchayat Raj (Amendment) Act, 2015_Section 8--> State(s): Bihar The sub-section (1) of Section 32 of the said Act shall be substituted by the following :- "32(1) There shall be a Panchayat Secretary in Gram Panchayat to be appointed in the manner as may be prescribed. In addition to a Panchayat Secretary, the State Government may post or depute such number of other staff to work under the Gram Panchayat, in the prescribed manner which it may consider necessary."
Bihar Panchayat Raj (Amendment) Act, 2015_Section 9--> State(s): Bihar The following clause (c) shall be added after clause (b) in section 40(1) of the said Act, 2006 :- "(c) If both the posts of Pramukh and Up-Pramukh of Panchayat Samiti fall vacant simultaneously and the State Election Commission is not able to conduct election to any one of the said vacant posts due to some reason, as a working arrangement, the seniormost member in age from amongst the members elected directly from the territorial electoral constituency of Panchayat Samiti shall act as the Pramukh. The tenure of Pramukh acting under working arrangement, shall be purely temporary and shall terminate automatically on assumption of charge by the duly elected Pramukh in accordance with provisions of the Act. In case of refusal in writing by the seniormost member to accept the responsibility of Pramukh, the member, who falls next in order of seniority of age after the seniormost member, shall act as the Pramukh. The Executive Officer of Panchayat Samiti, as a standing arrangement, shall maintain a register regarding age of all elected members in the manner prescribed. In case of equality of age, the seniority shall be decided by draw of lot in accordance with the prescribed procedure.
Bihar Panchayat Raj (Amendment) Act, 2015_Section 10--> State(s): Bihar (1) The following sentence shall be added at the end of the first proviso of clause (ii) of sub-section (3) of section 44 of the said Act, 2006 :- "Such a no confidence motion may be brought only once in the whole tenure of Pramukh/ Up-Pramukh." (2) The clause (iii) of sub-section (3) of section 44 is hereby deleted. (3) The clause (iv) of sub-section (3) of section 44 shall be renumbered as clause (iii).
Bihar Panchayat Raj (Amendment) Act, 2015_Section 11--> State(s): Bihar The following proviso shall be added in sub-section (1) of section 67 of the said Act, 2006 :- "Provided that if both the posts of Adhyaksha and Upadhyaksha of Zila Parishad fall vacant simultaneously and the State Election Commission is not able to conduct election to any one of the said vacant posts due to some reason, as a working arrangement, the seniormost member in age from amongst the members elected directly from the territorial electoral constituency of Zila Parishad shall act as the Adhyaksha. The tenure of Adhyaksha acting under working arrangement, shall be purely temporary and shall terminate automatically on assumption of charge by the duly elected Adhyaksha in accordance with provisions of the Act. In case of refusal in writing by the seniormost member to accept the responsibility of Adhyaksha, the member, who falls next in order of seniority of age after the seniormost member, shall act as the Adhyaksha. The Chief Executive Officer of Zila Parishad, as a standing arrangement, shall maintain a register regarding age of all elected members in the manner prescribed. In case of equality of age, the seniority shall be decided by draw of lot in accordance with the prescribed procedure.
Bihar Panchayat Raj (Amendment) Act, 2015_Section 12--> State(s): Bihar (1) The following sentence shall be added at the end of clause (ii) of sub-section (4) of section 70 of the said Act, 2006 :- "Such a no confidence motion may be brought only once in the whole tenure of "Adhyaksha or Upadhyaksha" (2) The clause (vii) of sub-section (4) of section 70 of the said Act, 2006 is hereby deleted.
Bihar Panchayat Raj (Amendment) Act, 2015_Section 13--> State(s): Bihar After Section 95 of the said Act, 2006, the following new section 95 A shall be inserted :- "95 A. Allowances to the Sarpanch, Up-Sarpanch and others members :- Sarpanch, Up-Sarpanch and others members of the Gram Katchahry shall be entitled to such allowances as may be prescribed."
Bihar Panchayat Raj (Amendment) Act, 2015_Section 14--> State(s): Bihar (1) The following sentence shall be added at the end of the first proviso of clause (i) of sub-section (4) of section 97 of the said Act, 2006 : - "Such a no confidence motion may be brought only once in the whole tenure of Sarpanch." (2) The second proviso of clause (i) of sub-section (4) of section 97 is hereby deleted. (3) The following sentence shall be added at the end of the first proviso of clause (ii) of sub-section (4) of section 97 of the said Act, 2006 :- "Such a no confidence motion may be brought only once in the whole tenure of Up-Sarpanch." (4) The second proviso of clause (ii) of sub-section (4) of section 97 of the said Act, 2006 is hereby deleted.
Bihar Panchayat Raj (Amendment) Act, 2015_Section 15--> State(s): Bihar The following new clause (k) shall be added after clause (j) of sub-section (1) of section 136 of the said Act 2006:- "(k) is a member of such individual householder family residing in the Panchayat area, which has not constructed at least one latrine in its house by the period of 1st January 2016 or prior to it. EXPLANATION:- (1) An "individual householder family' for this purpose means husband and wife, their dependent children and dependent parents. The person intending to contest election shall have to furnish at the time of filing his nomination paper an affidavit to the effect that a latrine exists in his/ her house. (2) Notwithstanding anything contained in the Bihar Panchayat Election Rules, 2006, this disqualification shall be applicable only for being a candidate in the Panchayat election and not for being a proposer provided he is not disqualified otherwise for being a proposer." By order of the Governor of Bihar, Manoj Kumar, Joint Secretary to Government. 
