Registration (Bihar Amendment) Act, 1991_Section Preamble--> State(s): Bihar An Act to Amend the Registration Act, 1908 in its Application to the State of Bihar. Be it enacted by the legislature of the State of Bihar in the Forty Second year of the Republic of India as follows: -
Registration (Bihar Amendment) Act, 1991_Section 1--> State(s): Bihar (1) This Act may be called the Registration (Bihar Amendment) Act, 19911 . (2) It shall extend to the whole of the State of Bihar. (3) It shall come into force at once. Published in Bihar Gazette (Extra Ordinary) No. 354 dated 8.8.1991.
Registration (Bihar Amendment) Act, 1991_Section 2--> State(s): Bihar After Section 22 of the Registration Act, 1908 (Act XVI of 1908) (hereinafter referred to as the said Act) the following new Section shall be added, namely: - "22A. Registration of documents which is against the public policy. - (1) The State Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, declare that the registration of any document or class of documents is against the public policy: (2) Notwithstanding anything contained in the Act, the Registering Officer shall refuse to register any document to which the notification issued under sub-section (1) is applicable."
Registration (Bihar Amendment) Act, 1991_Section 3--> State(s): Bihar In the said Act for Section 28 the following shall be substituted, namely: - "28. Save as in this part otherwise provided every document mentioned in clauses (a), (b), (c), (d) and (e) of sub-section (1) and sub-section (2) of Section 17 insofar as such documents affect immovable property and in clauses (a), (b), (c) and (d) of Section 18 shall be presented for registration in the office of the Sub-Registrar within whose sub-district or district the whole of the property to which such document relates is situated in the State of Bihar."
Registration (Bihar Amendment) Act, 1991_Section 4--> State(s): Bihar In Section 30 of the said Act sub-section (2), shall be deleted.
Registration (Bihar Amendment) Act, 1991_Section 5--> State(s): Bihar In the said Act, after Section 68 the following Sections shall be added, namely: - "68-A. Prohibition of unlicensed person. - (1) No person who is not licensed as provided under Section 68-B, shall engage himself in the profession of document writer and document drawn-up and signed by a person who does not hold a license shall not be accepted for registration by the Registering Officers: Provided that no advocate, pleader or Mukhtar shall be required to have a license under Section 68-B. (2) Nothing in this section shall prohibit an executant of document to draw up a document to be presented for registration or to do any other act for himself for which a licensed document-writer could have been otherwise engaged. (3) Nothing in this section shall apply to document executed out of India or out of the State of Bihar or to a will or to document scribed by document- writer holding licence for one sub-district or one district and presented for registration in another sub-district or another district, as the case may be, or to documents executed by or on behalf of the Government or local authorities or other corporate bodies." "68-B. Grant of licence to document-writers. - (1) The Registrar of District or any other Officer authorised by him in this behalf may grant a licence, to be valid in one sub-district or one district in the prescribed form to document- writer or apprentice to document-writer on an application made in this behalf, on such term and conditions as may be prescribed by the Inspector-General of Registration in this behalf after conducting a written test as may be prescribed. (2) A licence may be granted to any person who has been in the profession of the document writer for at least ten years prior to the date of the Registration (Bihar Amendment) Ordinance, 1991 came into force, without requiring him to appear in the written test referred to in sub-section (1), if the Registrar of a District or any other officer authorised by him in this behalf is satisfied that he is otherwise fit to take the profession of a document-writer. (3) A licence granted under sub-sections (1) and (2) shall, remain valid till the 31st day of December of the year in which the same was issued and shall be subject to renewal before the expiry of its period of validity on such terms and conditions as may be prescribed. (4) (a) The licence granted under Sections (1) and (2) may at any time, be suspended or cancelled on the breach of conditions prescribed or for such other reasons to be recorded in writing by the Registrar of district or the officer authorised by him, after the document writer has been given sufficient opportunity to show cause against the proposed suspension or cancellation of the licence and after the same has been duly considered. (b) An appeal shall lie before the Inspector-General of Registration against any order passed under this section. Explanation. - For the purpose of Sections 68-A and 68-B, - (i) "Document-writer" means and includes one who is engaged in the profession of preparing documents, namely, doing the work of conveyancing including investigation of titles, preparation of draft deeds and engrossing and transcribing the deed, including copies, if any, for registration or marking searches and inspection under the Act, and (ii) "Apprentice" means one who assists a document-writer in the preparation of documents and transcribes them (including copies, if any) to be present for registration.
Registration (Bihar Amendment) Act, 1991_Section 6--> State(s): Bihar In the said Act, after clause (b) of sub-section (1) Section 69, following new clause shall be inserted, namely: - "(bb) Providing for the grant of licences to document-writers and apprentices to document-writer, the suspenssion and cancellation of such licences, the terms and conditions under which such licences may be granted and generally for all other purposes connected with the writing of documents to be presented for registration."
Registration (Bihar Amendment) Act, 1991_Section 7--> State(s): Bihar (1) Registration (Bihar Amendment) Ordinance, 1991 (Bihar Ordinance No. 12, 1991) is hereby repealed. (2) Notwithstanding such repeal anything done or any action taken in exercise of the powers under the said Ordinance shall be deemed to have been done or taken in exercise of the powers conferred by or under this Act as if this Act were inforced on the day on which such thing or action was done or taken. 
