Bihar Staff Selection Commission (Amendment) Act, 2007_Section Preamble--> State(s): Bihar An Act to amend the Bihar Staff Selection Commission Act, 2002 (Bihar Act 7, 2002) Whereas, there is a provision of appointment of working Indian Administrative Service/State Services Officers as Chairman and Members of the Commission according to Section 3 of the Bihar Staff Selection Commission Act. And Whereas, it has been felt difficult to post the working officers in the said Commission due to shortage of hands. And Whereas, obtaining of recommendation of Commission has not been found practical in cases of employment on contract basis, adjustment of retrenched employees, compassionate appointments and appointment of outstanding sports person. And Whereas, in light of aforesaid reasons, it is expedient to amend the said Act to provide for appointment of retired officers as Chairman and Members of the Commission as well as to provide for exclusion of cases of contractual employment, adjustment of retrenched employees, compassionate appointment and appointment of outstanding sports person from the jurisdiction of recommendation of the Commission. Now therefore, be it enacted by the Legislature of State of Bihar in the Fifty-Eighth Year of Republic of India as follows: -
Bihar Staff Selection Commission (Amendment) Act, 2007_Section 1--> State(s): Bihar (1) This Act may be called the Bihar Staff Selection Commission (Amendment) Act, 20071 . (2) It shall extend to the whole of the State of Bihar. (3) It shall come into force at once. Published in Bihar Gazette (Extra-ordinary) dated 6th August, 2007.
Bihar Staff Selection Commission (Amendment) Act, 2007_Section 2--> State(s): Bihar Section 3 of the Bihar Staff Selection Commission Act, 2007 (Bihar Act 7, 2002) shall be substituted by the following: - "3. Constitution of Commission. - (1) The Bihar Staff Selection Commission shall be constituted consisting of a Chairman and two Members; (2) Appointment of the Chairman and other Members of the Commission shall be made by the State Government: Provided that the Chairman and other Members of the Commission shall be such persons who, on the dates of their appointments, have held office for at least ten years under the State Government; (3) If the office of the Chairman of the Commission becomes vacant or if the Chairman is, by reason of absence or for any other reason, unable to perform the duties of his office, those duties shall, until some person appointed under clause (2) to the vacant office has entered on the duties thereof or, as the case may be, until the Chairman has resumed his duties, be performed by such one of the other members of the Commission as the State Government may appoint for the purpose."
Bihar Staff Selection Commission (Amendment) Act, 2007_Section 3--> State(s): Bihar Section 4 of the Bihar Staff Selection Commission Act, 2007 (Bihar Act 7, 2002) shall be substituted by the following: - "4. Term of office, removal and service conditions of the Chairman and members of the Commission. - (1) Term of the Chairman and the Members of the Commission shall be of five years with effect from the date of appointment or until he attains the age of sixty five years, whichever is earlier: Provided that - (a) the Chairman and a Member of the Commission may resign his office during his term; (b) the Chairman and a Member of the Commission may be removed from his office, if he - (i) is adjudged an insolvent, or (ii) engages during his term of office in any paid employment outside the duties of his office, or (iii) is in the opinion of the State Government, unfit to continue in office due to any reason. (2) The conditions of service of the Chairman and Members of the Commission shall be determined after framing regulation under the powers conferred by sub-section (1) of Section 12 of the Act."
Bihar Staff Selection Commission (Amendment) Act, 2007_Section 4--> State(s): Bihar The following proviso shall be added to Section 5 of the Bihar Staff Selection Commission Act, 2002 (Bihar Act 7, 2002): "Provided that in the cases of contractual employments, adjustments of retrenched employees, compassionate appointments and appointments of outstanding sports person, the appointments may be made without obtaining the recommendation of the Commission." 
