Bihar State Universities (Amendment) Act, 2015_Section Preamble--> State(s): Bihar Whereas, the State Government has taken a policy decision to abolish the Vitta Rahit Shiksha Niti and to provide grants to the institutions including degree colleges vide resolution no. 1846, dated 21.11.2008. In course of distribution of grants amongst the teachers of the affiliated degree colleges, it has been noticed that many of the teachers working in such colleges for long duration were appointed by the Governing body of the colleges. However, erstwhile Bihar College Service Commissions recommendation in respect of them was not obtained for various reasons; And whereas, since erstwhile Bihar College Service Commission has ceased to exist and a new body namely Selection Committee at college level has been introduced for making recommendation with regard to the appointment of teachers of the affiliated degree colleges under the Bihar State Universities Act, 1976 (Bihar Act 23, 1976) as amended from time to time; Whereas, it is practically not possible for the Selection Committee to scrutinise individual cases unless one time relaxation is permitted. Whereas, it is necessary in public interest to provide for empowerment to the Selection Committee to scrutinise the cases of all those working teachers appointed without the recommendation of the Bihar College Service Commission. Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Bihar in the Sixty sixth year of the Republic of India as follows:-
Bihar State Universities (Amendment) Act, 2015_Section 1--> State(s): Bihar (1) This Act may be called The Bihar State Universities (Amendment) Act, 2015. (2) It shall extend to the whole of the State of Bihar. (3) It shall come into force at once.
Bihar State Universities (Amendment) Act, 2015_Section 2--> State(s): Bihar In the Bihar State Universities Act, 1976 (Bihar Act 23, 1976), the following new sub-section (6) shall be added after sub-section (5) of Section 57A of Bihar Act 23 of 1976 :- "(6) The Selection Committee, subject to this Act, will complete the scrutiny of the cases of the teachers of affiliated degree colleges appointed prior to 19.04.2007, without the recommendation of the Bihar College Service Commission on the basis of qualifications in force at the time of appointment of such teachers upto 31.03.2017, otherwise such appointments will not be treated valid. Thereafter the Governing Body of the college will accept the names recommended by the Selection Committee, which shall be finally approved by the concerned University. Distribution of the amount of grant sanctioned by the State Government will be made amongst the teachers in the concerned affiliated degree colleges by its Governing Body upto 31.03.2017." By order of the Governor of Bihar, Manoj Kumar, Joint Secretary to Government. 
