Bihar Sugarcane (Regulation of Supply and Purchase) (Amendment) Act, 1993_Section Preamble--> State(s): Bihar An Act to amend the Bihar Sugarcane (Regulation of Supply and Purchase) Act, 1981. Be it enacted by the legislature of the Bihar in the forty-fourth year of the Republic of India as follows: -
Bihar Sugarcane (Regulation of Supply and Purchase) (Amendment) Act, 1993_Section 1--> State(s): Bihar (1) This Act may be called the Bihar Sugarcane (Regulation of Supply and Purchase) (Amendment) Act, 19931 . (2) It shall come into force at once. Published in the Bihar Gazette, Extraordinary, dated 1.6.1994.
Bihar Sugarcane (Regulation of Supply and Purchase) (Amendment) Act, 1993_Section 2--> State(s): Bihar In Section 2 of the Bihar Sugarcane (Regulation of Supply and Purchase Act, 1981 (Bihar Act 37, 1982) (hereinafter referred to as the said Act)- (i) for clause (d) the following shall be substituted; namely- "(d) "Cane grower's means a person who grows cane either by himself or by members of his family or by hired labour." (ii) For clause (g) the following shall be substituted; namely - "(g) "Cane Growers Co-operative Society" means a society registered under the Bihar Co-operative Societies Act, 1935 (Bihar Act 6 of 1935) one of the objects of which is to develop cane grown by the members." (iii) After clause (g) the following new clause shall be inserted; namely: - "(g-1) "Cane Growers Co-operative Union" means any affiliated body of cane growers Co-operative Society registered under the Bihar Co-operative Societies Act, 1935 (Bihar Act 6 of 1935).
Bihar Sugarcane (Regulation of Supply and Purchase) (Amendment) Act, 1993_Section 3--> State(s): Bihar In clause (e) of sub-section (1) of Section 7 of the said Act, for the figures "62" the figure '2' shall be substituted.
Bihar Sugarcane (Regulation of Supply and Purchase) (Amendment) Act, 1993_Section 4--> State(s): Bihar In Section 13 of the said Act - (i) In clause (e) of sub-section (5) after the word "therefor" the words "and any other relevant matter" shall be inserted. (ii) After clause (e) of sub-section (5) the following new clause shall be inserted; namely - "(e-1) call for any book, account or other account relating to cash/credit accounts."
Bihar Sugarcane (Regulation of Supply and Purchase) (Amendment) Act, 1993_Section 5--> State(s): Bihar For the proviso of sub-section (1) of Section 15 of the said Act, the following shall be substituted; namely- "Provided that the quantity specified in licence may be enhanced with the availability of the cane during the relevant crushing year."
Bihar Sugarcane (Regulation of Supply and Purchase) (Amendment) Act, 1993_Section 6--> State(s): Bihar In Section 29 of the said Act - (i) In the second line of sub-section (1) after the word "factory" the words "or the Secretary of a Co-operative Society" and in the sixth line after the word "factory" "or the Secretary of the Society" shall be deleted. (ii) In sub-section (2) after the word "factory" the words "or the Secretary of the Co-operative Society" and after the word "occupier" the words "or Secretary" shall be deleted. (iii) In sub-section (3) after the words "factory" the words "or the Secretary of the Co-operative Society" shall be deleted.
Bihar Sugarcane (Regulation of Supply and Purchase) (Amendment) Act, 1993_Section 7--> State(s): Bihar In the said Act for the proviso to sub-section (1) of Section 31 the following shall be substituted, namely: - "Provided that in case of a factory situated outside the State of Bihar, such declaration may be made only when the occupier of such factory make an application to the Cane Commissioner requesting him in the prescribed form that certain area in Bihar may be reserved for supply of Cane to the factory and such declaration shall be made on the condition that such occupier shall establish a Branch office in the State of Bihar and deposit a sum of rupees five thousand as security to a Collector in the State of Bihar and gives an undertaking in the prescribed form to purchase of cane grown in the area."
Bihar Sugarcane (Regulation of Supply and Purchase) (Amendment) Act, 1993_Section 8--> State(s): Bihar In Section 32 of the said Act - (i) In sub-section (1) the words "or if he is a member of a Co-operative Society of the reserved area, through such society", shall be deleted; (ii) In sub-section (2) - (a) after the words "Every Sugarcane grower" the comma and words, "Co-operative Society" shall be deleted, (b) the proviso shall be deleted; (iii) In sub-section (3) in the final line after the words "cane grower" the words "of a Co-operative Society" and in the fourth line after the words "Cane grower" the words "or by the member of Co-operative Society or Societies" shall be deleted; (iv) The Proviso (i), (iii) and (iv) of sub-section (4) shall be deleted and proviso (ii) shall be the first proviso; (v) In sub-section (7): (a) after the words "Cane grower" the words "or a Co-operative Society" shall be deleted; (b) In the proviso in the first line after the words "cane grower" the words "or a Co-operative Society" shall be deleted; (vi) The proviso to sub-section (8) shall be deleted.
Bihar Sugarcane (Regulation of Supply and Purchase) (Amendment) Act, 1993_Section 9--> State(s): Bihar After Section 32 of the said Act, the following new Section shall be inserted, namely - "32-A. Payment of Compensation. - If cane remains undisposed in reserved area the order for payment of compensation to the cane growers concerned shall be made after due enquiry by the Cane Commissioner after giving an opportunity of being heard to both the parties concerned.
Bihar Sugarcane (Regulation of Supply and Purchase) (Amendment) Act, 1993_Section 10--> State(s): Bihar The Clause (b) of Section 33 of the said Act shall be deleted.
Bihar Sugarcane (Regulation of Supply and Purchase) (Amendment) Act, 1993_Section 11--> State(s): Bihar For sub-section (1) of Section 35, the following shall be substituted; namely - "(1) The occupier of a factory shall maintain, in the prescribed form, a register of all cane growers, supplier or cane or cane growers who are members of the Co-operative Society in each of the following area; namely- (a) the areas reserved for the factory under Section 31, and (b) any other area from which the factory may purchase cane."
Bihar Sugarcane (Regulation of Supply and Purchase) (Amendment) Act, 1993_Section 12--> State(s): Bihar In sub-section (1) of Section 39 of the said Act after the words "owner of every unit" the 'Comma (i) and words, Secretary of every Co-operative Society", shall be deleted.
Bihar Sugarcane (Regulation of Supply and Purchase) (Amendment) Act, 1993_Section 13--> State(s): Bihar In Section 40 of the said Act after the words "occupier of a factory, " the words "or a Co-operative Society" shall be deleted.
Bihar Sugarcane (Regulation of Supply and Purchase) (Amendment) Act, 1993_Section 14--> State(s): Bihar In Section 41 of the said Act- (i) In sub-section (1) after words "the occupier of a factory" the words or a person acting on behalf of a "Co-operative Society" shall be deleted. (ii) In sub-section (2)-(a)-after the words "occupier of the factory" the comma and words, "the "Co-operative Society" shall be deleted, and (b) for the words "of twenty-five paise per hour" the words "specified by the State Government from time to time" shall be substituted.
Bihar Sugarcane (Regulation of Supply and Purchase) (Amendment) Act, 1993_Section 15--> State(s): Bihar In Section 42 of the said Act after the words, "cane growers" the words "or Co-operative Societies" shall be deleted.
Bihar Sugarcane (Regulation of Supply and Purchase) (Amendment) Act, 1993_Section 16--> State(s): Bihar In Section 43 of the said Act - (i) Sub-section (3) shall be deleted, (ii) In sub-section (5) after the words "sub-section (2)" words, figure and brackets, "sub-section (3)" and after the words "the occupier of the factory" the words "or the Secretary or the Treasurer of the Co-operative Society or any other person in charge of payment on behalf of such society" shall be deleted.
Bihar Sugarcane (Regulation of Supply and Purchase) (Amendment) Act, 1993_Section 17--> State(s): Bihar In Section 44 of the said Act - (i) In sub-section (2) after the words, "cane grower" the words "as per list submitted by society concerned" shall be added; (ii) For sub-section (3) the following shall be substituted; namely- "(3) Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-sections (1) and (2) where is any contributory scheme under any National or State1 or Sugar Developments plan or plan of the Central Govt., the realisation of the Contribution of the Cane growers or members of the cane growers Co-operative Society may be made on the basis of agreement executed by them." N.B.-Wording re-arranged as per the Hindi Text because the English text did not convey proper meaning.
Bihar Sugarcane (Regulation of Supply and Purchase) (Amendment) Act, 1993_Section 18--> State(s): Bihar In explanation and sub-section (2) of Section 46 of the said Act after the words "Cane grower" the words "or a Co-operative Society" shall be deleted.
Bihar Sugarcane (Regulation of Supply and Purchase) (Amendment) Act, 1993_Section 19--> State(s): Bihar In Section 48 of the said Act - (i) For sub-section (1) the following shall be substituted namely - "(1) The State Government may by notification in the Official Gazette determine the amount of commission payable by the occupier of the factory on the purchase of sugarcane by such occupier or on his behalf and may by a like notification exempt the occupier of a new factory to be specified in the notification from the payment of the amount of such commission for a prescribed period." (ii) For sub-section (2) the following shall be substituted; namely - "(2) The commission payable under sub-section (1) shall be collected in the prescribed manner and the State Government shall determine the share of Zonal Development Council and Co-operative Society."
Bihar Sugarcane (Regulation of Supply and Purchase) (Amendment) Act, 1993_Section 20--> State(s): Bihar In Section 49 of the said Act - (i) In sub-section (1) - (a) In clause (a) for the words "one rupee, " the words "one rupee and seventy five paise" shall be substituted. (b) In clause (b) for the words "one rupee" the words "one rupee and seventy five paise" shall be substituted. (ii) In sub-section (4) the words "one rupee" the words "one rupee and seventy five paise" shall be substituted. (iii) In the proviso of sub-section (4) after the words "prescribed" the words "but in no case less than rupees five thousand per annum" shall be inserted.
Bihar Sugarcane (Regulation of Supply and Purchase) (Amendment) Act, 1993_Section 21--> State(s): Bihar In sub-section (1) of Section 50 of the said Act after the words cane grower the words "a member of a' shall be inserted.
Bihar Sugarcane (Regulation of Supply and Purchase) (Amendment) Act, 1993_Section 22--> State(s): Bihar Section 60 of the said Act shall be deleted. 
