Aryabhatt Knowledge University (Amendment) Act, 2013_Section Preamble--> State(s): Bihar An Act to amend the Aryabhatta Knowledge University Act, 2008 (Bihar Act 24, 2008) For administrative consolidation of Aryabhatta Knowledge University, it is expedient to amend certain provisions and to add certain new provisions in The Aryabhatta Knowledge University Act, 2008. Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Bihar in the sixty-fourth year of the Republic of India as follows:
Aryabhatt Knowledge University (Amendment) Act, 2013_Section 1--> State(s): Bihar (1) This Act may be called the Aryabhatt Knowledge University (Amendment) Act, 2013. (2) It shall extend to whole of the State of Bihar (3) It shall come into force from the date of its publication, by notification in the official gazette.
Aryabhatt Knowledge University (Amendment) Act, 2013_Section 2--> State(s): Bihar Section 9 of the Bihar Act 24 of 2008, shall be substituted by the following:- "9. Officers of the University- The following shall be the officers of the University:- (1) the Vice-Chancellor; (2) the Pro-Vice Chancellor; (3) the Deans; (4) the Registrar; (5) the Financial Advisor; (6) the Finance Officer; (7) the Examination Controller; (8) the Librarian; (9) such other officers as may be declared by the Statutes to be officers of the University."
Aryabhatt Knowledge University (Amendment) Act, 2013_Section 3--> State(s): Bihar After section 12 of the said Act, the following new sections shall be inserted :- "12A. (1) The Pro-Vice Chancellor shall be scholar of eminence; (2) The Pro-Vice Chancellor shall be appointed by the State Government; (3) The Pro-Vice Chancellor shall hold his office for a term of three years from the date on which he enters upon his office and he shall be eligible for re-appointment for next one term. The State Government may require the Pro-Vice Chancellor to continue in the office for such period which will not exceed the total period of one year and as may be specified by the Government after expiry of the term; (4) The emoluments and other conditions of service of the Pro-Vice Chancellor shall be as may be prescribed by the State Government. 12B. Powers, Duties and Functions of the Pro-Vice Chancellor :- The Pro-Vice Chancellor shall be responsible for skillful conduct of the academic & administrative affairs and supervision of the university under the control of the Vice-chancellor. 12C. Removal of the Pro-Vice Chancellor:- If at any time and after such enquiry as may be considered necessary, it appears, to the State Government that the Pro-Vice Chancellor- (a) has failed to discharge any duty imposed upon him, by or under this Act, the Statutes, the Ordinances, or (b) has acted in a manner prejudicial to the interests of the University, or (c) has been incapable of managing the affairs of the University, The State Government, may, notwithstanding the fact that the term of office of the Pro-Vice Chancellor has not expired, terminate the appointment of the Pro-Vice Chancellor, by an order in writing stating the reasons thereof, from the date as may be specified in the order. (d) No order shall be passed under sub section (c) above till the proposed mentioned grounds, on which action has been proposed, shall be served and adequate opportunities to show cause has been given to the Pro-Vice Chancellor."
Aryabhatt Knowledge University (Amendment) Act, 2013_Section 4--> State(s): Bihar After section 14 of the said Act, the following new section shall be inserted :- "14A. The Financial Adviser - (1) The Financial Advisor shall be whole time officer of the University; (2) The Financial Advisor shall be appointed by the State Government, officers of Indian Audit & Accounts Service or officers of any other Accounts Service or Chartered Accountant may be appointed through appointment/deputation; (3) The appointment of the Financial Advisor shall be for three years from the date of appointment, but the State Government, notwithstanding the fact that the term of office of the Financial Advisor has not expired, may terminate the service of the Financial Advisor by an order in writing stating the reasons thereof from the date as may be specified in the order on the ground of financial misbehavior or failure to discharge his duty or incompetence; (4) No order shall be passed under Sub-section (3) till the proposed mentioned grounds, on which action has been proposed, shall be served and adequate opportunities to show cause has been given to the Financial Advisor; (5) The emoluments and other conditions of service of the Financial Advisor shall be as prescribed by the University with the approval of State Government; (6) The Financial Advisor shall be responsible for Financial discipline and supervision of the university controlled by the Vice-Chancellor." By order of the Governor of Bihar, Vinod Kumar Sinha, Secretary to Government. 
