Bihar Agricultural University (Amendment) Act, 2010_Section Preamble--> State(s): Bihar An Act to amend the Bihar Agricultural University Act, 1987 (Bihar Act 8 of 1988). Be it enacted by the legislature of the state of Bihar in the sixty one year of the Republic of India as follows:-
Bihar Agricultural University (Amendment) Act, 2010_Section 1--> State(s): Bihar (1) This Act may be called the Bihar Agricultural University (Amendment) Act, 20101 . (2) It shall extend to the whole of the State of Bihar. (3) It shall come into force on such date as the Government may appoint by notification in the Government Gazette. Published in Bihar Gazette (Extra ordinary) No. 294, dated 28 April, 2010.
Bihar Agricultural University (Amendment) Act, 2010_Section 2--> State(s): Bihar Sub-section (xxi) of Section 2 of the Act, 1987 will be substituted by "(xxi) Region means the jurisdiction of the University as provided under sub-section (1) (i) and (ii) of Section 3"
Bihar Agricultural University (Amendment) Act, 2010_Section 3--> State(s): Bihar (i) and (ii) of subsection (1) of Section 3 shall be substituted by the following:- "(i) The Rajendra Agricultural University with its headquarters at Pusa having its jurisdiction over the whole of the State of Bihar. (ii) All Colleges, Research and Experimental Stations, Krishi Vigyan Kendras or other Institutions mentioned in Schedule-I shall be its constituent units under the full management and control of its officers and authorities and no such units shall be recognized as affiliated units. The State Government shall have power to add or delete any Institution from Schedule-I."
Bihar Agricultural University (Amendment) Act, 2010_Section 4--> State(s): Bihar Sub-section (1) of Section 4 of the Act shall be substituted by the following:- "(1) With respect to teaching at the University or College level, research, and extension education programmes in the field of agriculture and its allied fields broadly defined in this Act, the territorial jurisdiction and responsibility of the University shall extend to the area as mentioned in Section-3 (1) (i) and (ii)" (2) Sub-section (4) of Section 4 of the Act will be deleted. (3) subsection (5) of Section 4 of the Act shall be substituted by the following:- "(5) The University shall have authority throughout its jurisdiction to provide for, instruction, teaching, research and training in Agriculture in the State".
Bihar Agricultural University (Amendment) Act, 2010_Section 5--> State(s): Bihar Sub-section (1) of Section 38 of the Act shall be substituted by the following:- "(1) All Colleges, Research and Experimental Stations, Krishi Vigyan Kendras or other Institutions existing at the time of commencement of the Act and falling within the territorial jurisdiction as referred in sub-section (1)(i) and (ii) of Section 3 shall continue to be maintained, controlled and managed by the University."
Bihar Agricultural University (Amendment) Act, 2010_Section Sch.--> State(s): Bihar I. Educational Institutes- 1. Faculty of Agriculture, Pusa, Samastipur 2. Tirhut College of Agriculture, Dholi, Muzaffarpur 3. College of Home Science, Pusa, Samastipur 4. College of Agricultural Engineering, Pusa, Samastipur 5. College of Fisheries, Dholi, Muzaffarpur 6. College of Basic Science & Humanities, Pusa, Samastipur II. Research Institutes/Stations/Sub Stations- 1. Sugarcane Research Institute, Pusa, Samastipur 2. Animal Production Research Institute, Pusa, Samastipur 3. Regional Research Sub Station, Madhopur, West Champaran 4. Banana Research Station, Hajipur, Vaishali 5. Horticultural Research Station, Birauli, Samastipur 6. Deep Water Rice Research Station, Biraul, Darbhanga 7. Rice Research Station, Jhanjharpur, Madhubani III. Krishi Vigyan Kendras- 1. Krishi Vigyan Kendra, Khodawandpur, Begusarai 2. Krishi Vigyan Kendra, Saraiya, Muzaffarpur 3. Krishi Vigyan Kendra, Jale, Darbhanga 4. Krishi Vigyan Kendra, Hariharpur, Vaishali 5. Krishi Vigyan Kendra, Bhagwanpur Hat, Siwan 6. Krishi Vigyan Kendra, Madhopur, West Champaran 7. Krishi Vigyan Kendra, Birauli, Samastipur 8. Krishi Vigyan Kendra, Saran 9. Krishi Vigyan Kendra, Gopalganj 10. Krishi Vigyan Kendra, Piprakothi, East Champaran 11. Krishi Vigyan Kendra, Sheohar. 
