Bihar and Orissa Court-fees (Amendment) Act, 1922_Section Preamble--> State(s): Bihar An Act to amend the Court-fees Act, 1870. Whereas it is expedient to amend the Court-fees Act, 1870 in its application to the Province of Bihar [and Orissa] in the manner hereinafter appearing; It is hereby enacted as follows:-
Bihar and Orissa Court-fees (Amendment) Act, 1922_Section 1--> State(s): Bihar (1) This Act may be called the Bihar and Orissa Court-fees (Amendment) Act, 1922. (2) It extends to the whole of Bihar [and Orissa] including the Santhal Parganas. (3) It shall come into force on the twenty-fourth day of August, 1922.
Bihar and Orissa Court-fees (Amendment) Act, 1922_Section 2--> State(s): Bihar In paragraph 3 of Section 4 of the Court-fees Act, 1870 as amended by subsequent legislation and hereinafter called the Principal Act, for the word "two" shall be substituted the word "one".
Bihar and Orissa Court-fees (Amendment) Act, 1922_Section 3--> State(s): Bihar In clause (a) of Section 7(v) of the Principal Act, for the word "ten" shall be substituted the word "twenty" and in clause (b) of the said section for the word "five" shall be substituted the word "ten".
Bihar and Orissa Court-fees (Amendment) Act, 1922_Section 4--> State(s): Bihar In Section 17 of the Principal Act, after the words "of appeal" in both places where they occur the words "or of cross-objection" shall be inserted.
Bihar and Orissa Court-fees (Amendment) Act, 1922_Section 5--> State(s): Bihar In Section 18 of the Principal Act, for the words "a fee of eight annas" the words "a fee of twelve annas" shall be substituted.
Bihar and Orissa Court-fees (Amendment) Act, 1922_Section 6--> State(s): Bihar In item (viii) of Section 19 of the Principal Act, for the words "one thousand rupees" the words "two thousand rupees" shall be substituted.
Bihar and Orissa Court-fees (Amendment) Act, 1922_Section 7--> State(s): Bihar In Article 1 of Schedule I of the Principal Act, for the entry in the first column the following entry shall be substituted, namely:- (1) Plaint, written statement, pleading, a set-off or counter-claim or memorandum of appeal or of cross-objection, not otherwise provided for in this Act, presented to any Civil or Revenue Court except those mentioned in Section 3; (2) For the "proper fees" setout in the third column of the said Schedule I and shown opposite Article 1 in Schedule A of this Act, the "proper fees" shown against them in the second column of the said Schedule "A" shall be substituted; (3) The proviso in Article 1 of the said Schedule I shall be omitted.
Bihar and Orissa Court-fees (Amendment) Act, 1922_Section 8--> State(s): Bihar For the "proper fees" set out in Schedule I of the Principal Act for Articles 6, 7, 8 and 9 and shown in Schedule A of this Act, the "proper fees" shown against them in the second column of the said Schedule A shall be substituted.
Bihar and Orissa Court-fees (Amendment) Act, 1922_Section 9--> State(s): Bihar For the entries above the proviso in the second column and for the entries in the third column, in Article 11 of Schedule I of the Principal Act, the following shall be substituted, namely:- "When the amount or value of the property in respect of which the grant of Probate or Letters is made exceeds two thousand rupees, on such amount or value up to ten thousand rupees, Two percentum. and where such amount or value exceeds ten thousand rupees, on the portion of such amount or value which is in excess of ten thousand rupees up to fifty thousand rupees, Three percentum. and when such amount or value exceeds fifty thousand rupees, on the portion of such amount or value which is in excess of fifty thousand rupees up to one lakh of rupees, Four percentum. and when such amount or value exceeds a lakh of rupees, on the portion of such amount or value which is in excess of one lakh of rupees." Five percentum.
Bihar and Orissa Court-fees (Amendment) Act, 1922_Section 10--> State(s): Bihar For the entry in the second column of Article 12 of Schedule I of the Principal Act, and for the first paragraph in the third column of the said Article, the following shall be substituted, namely:- "When the amount or value of any debt or security specified in the certificate Under Section 8 of the Act, exceeds one thousand rupees on such amount or value up to ten thousand rupees, Two percentum, and on the amount or value of any debt or security to which the certificate is extended under Section 10 of the Act, three percentum. and when such amount or value exceeds ten thousand rupees, on the portion of such amount or value which is in excees of ten thousand rupees up to fifty thousand rupees, Three percentum, and on the amount or value of any debt or security to which the certificate is extended under Section 10 of the Act, four-and-a-half percentum. and when such amount or value exceeds fifty thousand rupees, on the portion of such amount or value which is in excess of fifty thousand rupees up to one lakh of rupees. Four percentum, and on the amount or value of any debt or security to which the certificate is extended under Section 10 of the Act, six percentum. and when such amount or value exceeds a lakh of rupees, on the portion of such amount or value which is in excess of one lakh of rupees. Five percentum, and on the amount or value of any debt or security to which the certificate is extended under Section 10 of the Act, seven-and-a-half per centum."
Bihar and Orissa Court-fees (Amendment) Act, 1922_Section 11--> State(s): Bihar For the table of rates of ad valorem fees annexed to Schedule I of the Principal Act, the table set forth in Schedule B of this Act, shall be substituted.
Bihar and Orissa Court-fees (Amendment) Act, 1922_Section 12--> State(s): Bihar (1) In the first column of the said Schedule II after the words "memorandum of appeal" in Articles 5, 11, 17, 20 and 21 the words "or of cross-objection" shall be inserted. (2) For the "proper fees" set out in the said Schedule II, and shown in Schedule C of this Act, the "proper fees" shown against them in the second column of the said Schedule C shall be substituted.
Bihar and Orissa Court-fees (Amendment) Act, 1922_Section 13--> State(s): Bihar Nothing in this Act, shall apply to any Probate, Letters of Administration or certificate under the Succession Certificate Act, 1889 in respect of which the fee payable under the law for the time being in force has been paid prior to the commencement of this Act, but which have not issued.
Bihar and Orissa Court-fees (Amendment) Act, 1922_Section Sch.--> State(s): Bihar Schedules 
