Bihar Contingency Fund Act, 1950_Section Preamble--> State(s): Bihar An Act to provide for the establishment and maintenance of a Contingency Fund in the State of Bihar. Whereas it is expedient to provide for the establishment and maintenance in the State of Bihar of a Contingency Fund to be placed at the disposal of the Governor of Bihar so as to enable him to make advances out of the Fund for the purposes of meeting unforeseen expenditure of the State pending authorisation of such expenditure by the Legislature of the State under appropriations made by law; And whereas the Legislature of the State, by clause (2) of Article 267 of the Constitution of India, has been empowered by law to establish such Fund; It is hereby enacted as follows:-
Bihar Contingency Fund Act, 1950_Section 1--> State(s): Bihar (1) This Act may be called the Bihar Contingency Fund Act, 1950. (2) It extends to the whole of the State of Bihar. (3) It shall come into force on the 1st day of April, 1950.
Bihar Contingency Fund Act, 1950_Section 2--> State(s): Bihar In this Act, "the Fund" means the Bihar Contingency Fund established under Section 3.
Bihar Contingency Fund Act, 1950_Section 3--> State(s): Bihar On the commencement of this Act, the State Government shall establish in and for the State of Bihar a fund called the Bihar Contingency Fund.
Bihar Contingency Fund Act, 1950_Section 4--> State(s): Bihar The State Government shall, on the commencement of this Act, withdraw 1 [a sum of four crores of rupees] out of the Consolidated Fund of the State and place it to the credit of Fund: 2 [Provided that during the financial year ending on the 31st March, 1960, the State Government may withdraw a sum not exceeding six crores of rupees out of the Consolidated Fund of the State and place it to the credit of the Fund.] Substituted by Act No. 5 of 1960 "for a sum of three crores of rupees". Added by Act No. 5 of 1960.
Bihar Contingency Fund Act, 1950_Section 5--> State(s): Bihar The Fund shall be placed at the disposal of the Governor of Bihar who shall not expend it except for the purposes of making advances from time to time for meeting unforeseen expenditure of the State pending authorisation of such expenditure by the Legislature of the State under appropriations made by law and immediately after the coming into operation of such law, an amount equal to the amount or amounts advanced by the Governor for the purposes aforesaid shall be deemed to have been placed to the credit of the Fund and the amount so transferred shall for all purposes be deemed to be a part of the Fund.
Bihar Contingency Fund Act, 1950_Section 6--> State(s): Bihar The State Government may, by notification make rules to carry out all or any of the purposes of the Act. 
