Bihar Deputy Ministers Salaries and Allowances Act, 1952_Section Preamble--> State(s): Bihar An Act to provide for the salaries and allowance of the Deputy Ministers of the State of Bihar. Whereas it is expedient to provide for the salaries and allowances of the Deputy Ministers of the State of Bihar. It is hereby enacted as follows:-
Bihar Deputy Ministers Salaries and Allowances Act, 1952_Section 1--> State(s): Bihar This Act, may be called the Bihar Deputy Minister's Salaries and Allowances Act, 1952.
Bihar Deputy Ministers Salaries and Allowances Act, 1952_Section 2--> State(s): Bihar In this Act, the expression "Deputy Minister" means a person appointed as such by the Governor.
Bihar Deputy Ministers Salaries and Allowances Act, 1952_Section 3--> State(s): Bihar There shall be paid to each Deputy Minister a salary at the rate of eight hundred rupees per months.
Bihar Deputy Ministers Salaries and Allowances Act, 1952_Section 4--> State(s): Bihar (1) Each Deputy Minister shall be entitled without payment of rent, to the use of:- (a) furnished residence in Patna throughout his term of office and for a period of fifteen days a immediately thereafter, or in lieu of such residence a house allowance at the rate of one hundred rupees per month; and (b) a furnished residence at such other place as the State Government may from time to time for the purposes of this Act, declare to be the headquarters of Government and for such period as may be specified in such declaration or in lieu of such residence a house allowance at the rate of one hundred rupees per month. (2) No charge shall fall on the Deputy Minister personally in respect of the maintenance of any residence provided under this Section. 1 [(3) The expenditure on furnishing and maintenance of the residence provided under this Section shall be on such scale and subject to such monetary limits as the State Government may, by rules, determine. Explanation - For the purposes of this Section, the expression 'residence', includes the staff quarters and other buildings appurtenant thereto and the garden thereof. Inserted by Bihar Act XI of 1965.
Bihar Deputy Ministers Salaries and Allowances Act, 1952_Section 5--> State(s): Bihar A Deputy Minister shall be entitled to travelling and daily allowances while touring on public business at such rates and upon such conditions as the State Government may, by rules, determine.
Bihar Deputy Ministers Salaries and Allowances Act, 1952_Section 6--> State(s): Bihar (1) The State Government may, from time to time, purchase and provide motor cars for the use of Deputy Ministers on such terms as the State Government may, by Rules, determine: Provided that if any Deputy Ministers does not keep a motor car purchased by the State Government he may, in lieu thereof, be paid such amount of conveyance allowance and, by way of repayable advance, such sum of money for the purchase of motor car and on such terms as the State Government may, by Rules, determine so that he may be able to discharge conveniently and efficiently the duties of his office: Provided further that the amount of conveyance allowance shall not exceed two hundred rupees per month. (2) A Deputy Minister shall be entitled to the use of a staff car on payment of charges at such concessional rates and on such other conditions as the State Government may, from time to time, by Rules, determine. Explanation - For the purpose of this sub-section the expression a 'staff car' means any motor vehicle owned and maintained by the State Government for official purposes. Substituted by Bihar Act XI of 1965.
Bihar Deputy Ministers Salaries and Allowances Act, 1952_Section 7--> State(s): Bihar A Deputy Minister and members of his family shall be entitled to such facilities and concession in respect of free medical attendance and supply and medicines and of accommodation in hospital as the State Government may, by rules, determine. Inserted by Bihar Act XIX of 1953. 
