Bihar Government Premises (Allotment, Rent, Recovery and Eviction) (Amendment) Act, 2008_Section Preamble--> State(s): Bihar An Act to amend the Bihar Government Premises (Allotment, Rent, Recovery and Eviction) Act, 1956 (Bihar Act 20 of 1956). Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Bihar in the fifty, ninth year of the Republic of India as follows:-
Bihar Government Premises (Allotment, Rent, Recovery and Eviction) (Amendment) Act, 2008_Section 1--> State(s): Bihar (1) This Act may be called the Bihar Government Premises (Allotment, Rent, Recovery and Eviction) (Amendment) Act, 20081 . (2) It shall extend to whole of the State of Bihar. (3) It shall come into force at once. Published in Bihar Gazette (Extra ordinary), dated 24.12.2008.
Bihar Government Premises (Allotment, Rent, Recovery and Eviction) (Amendment) Act, 2008_Section 2--> State(s): Bihar In the said Act after Section 2A(2) the following new sub-section shall be inserted namely:- "(3) The State Government may allot Government Premises to various Departments/Authorities/Boards/Commissions/Statutory Bodies for their official use for the period, the order is in force."
Bihar Government Premises (Allotment, Rent, Recovery and Eviction) (Amendment) Act, 2008_Section 3--> State(s): Bihar In the said Act Section 12 shall be substituted, as follows:- "12. Penalty and Procedure - (1) Contravention of any provision or obstruction to the lawful exercise of any power conferred or abetment to such contravention or obstruction, under this Act or any Rule or Order made thereunder shall constitute an offence and any person committing offence shall be punishable with imprisonment for a period which may extend to two years or fine which may extend to Ten Thousand Rupees, or with both. (2) Proceeding for punishment under sub-section (1) shall neither be initiated nor any Court shall take cognizance of such offence except on a report in writing of the facts constituting such an offence made by the Competent Authority with the previous sanction of the State Government. (3) No Court inferior to that of a Judicial Magistrate of the first class shall try any offence defined under sub-section (1)"
Bihar Government Premises (Allotment, Rent, Recovery and Eviction) (Amendment) Act, 2008_Section 4--> State(s): Bihar In the said Act after Section 12 the following new Section shall be inserted namely- "12A. offences to be cognizable and non-bailable - Every offence, as defined under Section 12(1) of the Act, shall be cognizable and non-bailable." 
