East Punjab Utilization of Lands (Haryana Amendment) Act, 2014_Section Preamble--> State(s): Haryana An Act further to amend the East Punjab Utilization of Lands Act, 1949 in its application to the State of Haryana. Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Haryana in the Sixty-fifth Year of the Republic of India as follows :-
East Punjab Utilization of Lands (Haryana Amendment) Act, 2014_Section 1--> State(s): Haryana (1) This Act may be called the East Punjab Utilization of Lands (Haryana Amendment) Act, 2014. (2) It shall be deemed to have come into force with effect from the 24th September, 1986.
East Punjab Utilization of Lands (Haryana Amendment) Act, 2014_Section 2--> State(s): Haryana For section 5 of the East Punjab Utilization of Lands Act, 1949 (hereinafter called the principal Act), the following section shall be substituted, namely :- "5. Where the Collector has taken possession of any land under section 3, he may lease or renew the lease to any person on such terms and conditions, as he may deem fit, for the purpose of growing any type of crop: Provided that the Collector may renew the lease, which expired on or before the 24th September, 1986, and the lessee is in cultivating possession of the land belonging to State Government or Gram Panchayat, as the case may be: Provided further that the period of lease shall not be less than seven years and more than ninety-nine years in totality: Provided further that the Collector shall take the use and occupation charges from lessee for the period from expiry of lease till its renewal. Explanation I.- For the purposes of this section, the words "any person" shall mean a person himself who was granted lease by the Collector on or before the 24th September, 1986 under the provisions of this Act, or his legal heir. Explanation II.- The cultivating possession of the lessee shall be ascertained on or before the 24th September, 1986.".
East Punjab Utilization of Lands (Haryana Amendment) Act, 2014_Section 3--> State(s): Haryana In section 8 of the principal Act, for the words "food or fodder crops", the words "any type of crop" shall be substituted.
East Punjab Utilization of Lands (Haryana Amendment) Act, 2014_Section 4--> State(s): Haryana (1) The East Punjab Utilization of Lands (Haryana Amendment) Ordinance, 2013 (Haryana Ordinance No. 4 of 2013), is hereby repealed. (2) Notwithstanding such repeal, anything done or any action taken under the principal Act, as amended by the said Ordinance, shall be deemed to have been done or taken under the principal Act, as amended by this Act. Raj Rahul Garg Secretary to Government Haryana, Law and Legislative Department. 
