East Punjab Armed Bands (Arrest and Detention) Act, 1947_Section Preamble--> State(s): Haryana 
East Punjab Armed Bands (Arrest and Detention) Act, 1947_Section 1--> State(s): Haryana (1) The Act may be called the East Punjab Armed Bands (Arrest and Detention) Act, 1947.1 (2) It extends to the whole of 2 [the principal territories]. (3) It shall come into force in such areas and on such date or dates as 3 [State] Government may, by notification, appoint in this behalf. Received the assent of His Excellency the Governor of East Punjab on the 4th December, 1947, and was first published in the East Punjab Government Gazette Extraordinary, dated the 8th December, 1947. Substituted vide Haryana Adoption of Laws Order for words "Punjab". Substituted for the word "Provincial" by the Adaptation of Laws Order, 1950.
East Punjab Armed Bands (Arrest and Detention) Act, 1947_Section 2--> State(s): Haryana In this Act, unless there is anything repugnant in the subject or context,- (a) "Arms" has the meaning given to it in the Indian Arms Act, 1878, and includes any weapon, or thing capable of being used as weapon, which if used for offence is likely to cause grievous hurt or death; but does not include licensed arm or arms for which no licence is, under the provisions of the said Act or rules made thereunder required; (b) "Armed band" means any assembly or group of five or more persons all or any of whom carry or carries arms; Provided that no public servant who carries any arms in pursuance of his duties as such public servant shall be treated as member of an armed band; (c) "The Code" means the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1898; (d) "Concentration Camp" means any camp established by or under the authority of the 1 [State] Government for the detention of persons contravening any of the provisions of this Act; (e) "Grievous hurt" has the meaning given to it in section 320 of the Indian Penal Code, 1860; (f) "Public servant" has the meaning given to it in section 21 of the Indian Penal Code, 1860. Substituted for the word "Provincial" by the Adaptation of Laws Order, 1950.
East Punjab Armed Bands (Arrest and Detention) Act, 1947_Section 3--> State(s): Haryana (1) Any Magistrate and any police officer not below the rank of Station House Officer may arrest without warrant any member of an armed band, and if resistance is offered to the arrest, may fire upon or otherwise use force, even to the causing of death, in order to effect such arrest. (2) The procedure laid down in sections 41 to 53 of the Code shall be, so far as may be, applicable to arrest effected under sub-section (1) .
East Punjab Armed Bands (Arrest and Detention) Act, 1947_Section 4--> State(s): Haryana (1) The officer affecting the arrest shall with all convenient speed take or send the arrested person to the officer-in-charge of the nearest concentration camp. (2) The officer-in-charge of a concentration camp may pending trial keep the arrested person in detention for a period not exceeding one month.
East Punjab Armed Bands (Arrest and Detention) Act, 1947_Section 5--> State(s): Haryana (1) the 1 [State] Government and, with the authority of 2 [State] Government, the District Magistrate, within the area under his jurisdiction, may establish concentration camps. (2) The 3 [State] Government may by general or special order prescribe the organisation of such camps and determine the conditions as to maintenance, discipline and the punishment of offences and breaches of discipline which shall be applicable to persons kept in custody in such camps. Substituted for the word "Provincial" by the Adaptation of Laws Order, 1950. Substituted for the word "Provincial" by the Adaptation of Laws Order, 1950. Substituted for the word "Provincial" by the Adaptation of Laws Order, 1950.
East Punjab Armed Bands (Arrest and Detention) Act, 1947_Section 6--> State(s): Haryana (1) Whoever is a member of an armed band, shall, on conviction for such offence by a competent Criminal Court, be punished with imprisonment of either description which may extend to three years or with fine or with both. (2) Whoever being a member of an armed band resists his arrest by or under the orders of a duly authorised officer shall on conviction for such offences by a competent Criminal Court, be punished with imprisonment of either description which may extend to seven years or with fine or with both.
East Punjab Armed Bands (Arrest and Detention) Act, 1947_Section 7--> State(s): Haryana Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in the Code any Magistrate trying an offence under this Act may if he thinks fit try any such offence summarily according to the procedure prescribed in chapter XXII of the Code.
East Punjab Armed Bands (Arrest and Detention) Act, 1947_Section 8--> State(s): Haryana Notwithstanding anything contained in the Code any offence punishable under this Act shall be non-bailable.
East Punjab Armed Bands (Arrest and Detention) Act, 1947_Section 9--> State(s): Haryana Notwithstanding anything contained in the Code no person accused of an offence made punishable by this Act shall if in custody, be released on bail or on bond unless - (a) the prosecution has been given an opportunity to oppose the application for such release; and (b) where the prosecution opposes the application, the Court is satisfied that there are reasonable grounds for believing that he is not guilty of such offence.
East Punjab Armed Bands (Arrest and Detention) Act, 1947_Section 10--> State(s): Haryana No prosecution, suit or other legal proceedings shall be instituted except with the previous sanction of the 1 [State] Government against any person in respect of anything done or purporting to be done in exercise of the powers conferred under sections 3 and 4 of this Act, or under any order made under sub-section (2) of section 5. Substituted for the word "Provincial" by the Adaptation of Laws Order, 1950.
East Punjab Armed Bands (Arrest and Detention) Act, 1947_Section 11--> State(s): Haryana Nothing contained in this Act shall be deemed to prevent any person from being prosecuted under any other law for any act which constitutes an offence punishable under this Act.
East Punjab Armed Bands (Arrest and Detention) Act, 1947_Section 12--> State(s): Haryana The East Punjab Armed Bands (Arrest and Detention) Ordinance, 1947, is hereby repealed. 
