East Punjab Local Authorities (Restriction of Functions) Act, 1947_Section Preamble--> State(s): Haryana It is hereby enacted as follows :-
East Punjab Local Authorities (Restriction of Functions) Act, 1947_Section 1--> State(s): Haryana (1) This Act may be called the East Punjab Local Authorities (Restriction of Functions) Act, 1947.1 . (2) It extends to the whole of 2 [Haryana]. (3) It shall come into force at once. Received the assent of His Excellency the Governor of East Punjab on the 4th December, 1947, and was first published in the East Punjab Government Gazette (Extraordinary), dated the 8th December, 1947. Substituted by Haryana Adaptation Laws Order, 1968.
East Punjab Local Authorities (Restriction of Functions) Act, 1947_Section 2--> State(s): Haryana In this Act unless there is anything repugnant in the subject or content - (a) "Notified Area" means an area notified by the 1 [State] Government as an area in which there is an influx of refugees or in which such influx is anticipated; and (b) "Refugee" means a person domiciled or ordinarily resident in the territories now comprised in the dominion of Pakistan and who has left or been made to leave his place of business in the said territories on account of civil disturbance or the fear of such disturbances and who is for the time being resident in the 2 [Punjab]. Substituted for the words "East Punjab" by the Adaptation of Laws Order, 1950. Substituted for the words "East Punjab" by the Adaptation of Laws Order, 1950.
East Punjab Local Authorities (Restriction of Functions) Act, 1947_Section 3--> State(s): Haryana The State Government may by notification in the Official Gazette declare that the whole or any such part of the State as may be specified in the notification is a notified area and may in the like manner add to, amend, vary or rescind such notification.
East Punjab Local Authorities (Restriction of Functions) Act, 1947_Section 4--> State(s): Haryana The State Government, if satisfied that a local authority (not being a Cantonment Board) having jurisdiction in any notified area is incapable of performing or does not adequately perform, any or all of its functions, may suspend such branches or departments of the local authority as are entrusted with these functions, and shall appoint any person or persons either by name or designation to discharge such function or functions.
East Punjab Local Authorities (Restriction of Functions) Act, 1947_Section 5--> State(s): Haryana The State Government may, as often as may be necessary, direct that the expenses of discharging such functions shall, within such time as may be fixed, be paid by the local authority and should the expenses be not so paid, the State Government may make an order directing the person having the custody of the balance of the funds of the local authority to pay the expenses, or so much thereof as may from time to time be possible, from that balance, in priority to all other charges against the same.
East Punjab Local Authorities (Restriction of Functions) Act, 1947_Section 6--> State(s): Haryana The State Government may, subject to such 1 [conditions] as may be prescribed, direct any local authority in a notified area to appoint refugees to vacancies in posts of officers or servants, other than menials and those paid out of contingencies that have occurred or may occur within the next two years. For conditions, see East Punjab Govt. Gazette (Extraordinary), dated 12th January, 1948, page 128, Notification No 1235-B and C-47/408, dated 4th January, 1948.
East Punjab Local Authorities (Restriction of Functions) Act, 1947_Section 7--> State(s): Haryana No suit, prosecution or other legal proceedings shall lie against the State Government or against any person in respect of anything which is in good faith done or intended to be done under the provisions of this Act.
East Punjab Local Authorities (Restriction of Functions) Act, 1947_Section 8--> State(s): Haryana The provisions of this Act shall have effect notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in the Punjab District Boards Act, 1883 (XX of 1883), the Punjab Municipal Act, 1911 (III of 1911), the Small Towns Act, 1922 (II of 1922) or any other enactment in force in 1 [Haryana]. Substituted by Haryana Adaptation Laws Order, 1968.
East Punjab Local Authorities (Restriction of Functions) Act, 1947_Section 9--> State(s): Haryana The East Punjab Local Authorities (Restriction of Functions) Ordinance, 1947, is hereby repealed. 
