Haryana General Sales Tax (Second Amendment) Act, 1995_Section Preamble--> State(s): Haryana An Act to amend the Haryana General Sales Tax Act, 197. BE it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Haryana in the Forty-sixth Year of the Republic of India as follows: -
Haryana General Sales Tax (Second Amendment) Act, 1995_Section 1--> State(s): Haryana (1) This Act may be called the Haryana General Sales Tax (Second Amendment) Act, 1995. (2) It shall be deemed to have come into force on the 1st day of April, 1995.
Haryana General Sales Tax (Second Amendment) Act, 1995_Section 2--> State(s): Haryana In section 2 of the Haryana General Sales Tax Act, 1973 (hereinafter called the principal Act), - (i) in sub-clause (iv) of clause (j), after the word "goods", the words and signs "except tents, kanats, chholdari, crockery, utensils, furniture and all other goods dealt with by the tent dealers as also other allied dealers for decoration and lighting purposes" shall be inserted. (ii) In sub-clause (iv) of clause (l), after the words "goods", the words and signs "except tents, kanats, chholdari, crockery, utensils, furniture and all other goods dealt with by the tent dealers as also other allied dealers for decoration and lighting purposes" shall be inserted.
Haryana General Sales Tax (Second Amendment) Act, 1995_Section 3--> State(s): Haryana In section 4 of the principal Act,-(i) for sub-section (1), the following sub-section shall be substituted, namely: - "(1)(a) The State Government may constitute one or more Tribunals, with effect from such date as may be notified by the state Government, to be called the Haryana Sales Tax Tribunal consisting of one or more members as the State Government may appoint for the purpose of performing such functions and exercising such powers as may be assigned to, or conferred on the Tribunal by or under this Act; (b) The State Government shall appoint one of the members of each Tribunal to be the Chairman; (c) The functions of the Tribunal may be discharged by any of the members sitting either singly or in Benches of two or more members, as may be determined by the Chairman; (d) If the members of a Bench are divided over some matter, the decision shall be the decision of the majority, if there be a majority, but if the members are equally divided they shall state the point or points on which they differ, and the case shall be referred by the Chairman of the Tribunal for hearing on such point or points to more members of the Tribunal; and such point or points shall be decided according to the decision of majority of the members of the Tribunal, who heard the case including those who first heard it; Provided that if at any time the Tribunal consists of only two members, the decision of the Tribunal shall be that of the Chairman in such cases; (e) In the event of the State Government constitution more Tribunals than one, the State Government shall, by notification, define the local limits of jurisdiction of each Tribunal and where an appeal, application or revision pending before a Tribunal relates to the local limits of an area which, as a result of the issue of another Tribunal, such appeal, application or revision shall stand transferred and be heard and decided by the Tribunal; (f) If the Tribunals differ on some issue, then the issue shall be decided by the joint sitting of both the Tribunals and the majority decision shall be the decision shall be the decision. But if the members are equally divided, the decision of the Senior Chairman shall be the decision on the said point of law. Explanation. - For the purposes of clause (f) of sub-section (1) of section 4, the Senior Chairman amongst the Chairman of different Tribunals shall be the one who is senior in his cadre, if they are of the same rank or the one who is senior in status.";
Haryana General Sales Tax (Second Amendment) Act, 1995_Section 4--> State(s): Haryana In sub-section (1) of section 6 of the principal Act, in clause (h) of the second proviso, the words an figures "and remain in force up to 31 st March, 1995" shall be added at the end.
Haryana General Sales Tax (Second Amendment) Act, 1995_Section 5--> State(s): Haryana For clause (a) of sub-section (1) of section 15 of the principal Act, the following clause shall be substituted, namely: -"(a) twenty paise in a rupee in the case of liquor (foreign liquor and Indian made foreign liquor) and lottery, specified at serial numbers 25 and 35 respectively of Schedule A and twelve paise in a rupee in the case of other goods specified therein; and".
Haryana General Sales Tax (Second Amendment) Act, 1995_Section 6--> State(s): Haryana In Schedule A of the principal Act, after entry 34, the following entry shall be added, namely: -"35. Lottery tickets".
Haryana General Sales Tax (Second Amendment) Act, 1995_Section 7--> State(s): Haryana In Schedule B of the principal Act, -(i) for entry 1-B, the following entry shall be substituted, namely: -"1-B. Sugarcane, Bajra, Maize and Jowar."; (ii) for entries 11 and 12, the following entries shall be substituted, namely: -" 11. Writing slates, slate pencils, braille typewriters, braille slates and braille stationery. 12. writing chalks, crayons, writing ink and ball pen or pen up to a maximum retail price of Rs. 25 each."; (iii) entry 21-A and the words thereagainst shall be omitted; (iv) entry 52 shall be omitted. (v) In entry 75, against item 21, after the words "Biogas stoves", the words "and improved Chullan" shall be added; (vi) in entry 77, the following entry shall be substituted, namely: -"77. Bindi, Kajal, Sindur, Mangalsutra and Yogypavit."; (vii) after entry 77, the following entry shall be added, namely: -" 78. Solid fuel briquettes converted from agrowaste i.e. wood dust, paddy-husk, bagasse, sugarcane trash, maize stalks, sunflower and mustard-stalks, paddy-stalks (parali), ground nut shells and sarkanda etc.".
Haryana General Sales Tax (Second Amendment) Act, 1995_Section 8--> State(s): Haryana Any tax charges by any dealer under the provisions of Haryana General Sales Tax Act, 1973, as amended by the Haryana General Sales Tax (Second Amendment) Ordinance, 1995 (Haryana Ordinance 4 of 1995) and the Haryana General Sales Tax (Third Amendment) Ordinance, 1995 (Haryana Ordinance No. 5 of 1995) shall be valid and deposited in the Government treasury as if the provisions of the said ordinances have remained in force, and the subsequent sale and purchase of the foods, on which sales tax has been charged and deposited in the Government treasury, shall remain exempt from the levy of sales tax.
Haryana General Sales Tax (Second Amendment) Act, 1995_Section 9--> State(s): Haryana The Haryana General Sales Tax (Second Amendment) Ordinance, 1995 (Haryana Ordinance No. 4 of 1995) and the Haryana General Sales Tax (Third Amendment) Ordinance, 1995 (Haryana Ordinance No. 5 of 1995), are hereby repealed. M.K.BANSAL, Secretary to Government, Haryana, 
