Haryana Fiscal Responsibility and Budget Management (Amendment) Act, 2005_Section Preamble--> State(s): Haryana AN ACT further to amend the Haryana Fiscal Responsibility and Budget Management Act. 2005. Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Haryana in the Fifty- sixth Year of the Republic of India as follows:-
Haryana Fiscal Responsibility and Budget Management (Amendment) Act, 2005_Section 1--> State(s): Haryana This Act may be called The Haryana Fiscal Responsibility and Budget Management (Amendment) Act, 2005.
Haryana Fiscal Responsibility and Budget Management (Amendment) Act, 2005_Section 2--> State(s): Haryana In section 2 of the Haryana Fiscal Responsibility and Budget Management Act. 2005 (hereinafter called the principal Act):- (i) the existing clause (a) shall be re-numbered as clause (aa) thereof and before the clause so re-numbered, the following clause shall be inserted, namely:- (a) "aided institution employee" means a person in the whole time employment of any primary school, secondary school, college, university or technical education institution recognised and aided b\ the State Government for payment of salary, etc..; (ii) after clause (j). the following clause shall be inserted, namely:- '(jj) "public sector employee" means a person in the whole time employment of any public sector undertaking including boards and corporations of the State of Haryana and drawing salary from the concerned institute;
Haryana Fiscal Responsibility and Budget Management (Amendment) Act, 2005_Section 3--> State(s): Haryana In sub-section (2) of section 9 of the principal Act:- (i) for the existing clauses (a) and (b), the following clauses shall be substituted, namely :- "(a) bring out annual reduction in revenue deficit from the financial year 2005 06. so as to bring it down to zero by 2008 00 and generate revenue surplus thereafter; (b) bring out annual reduction in fiscal deficit from the financial year 2005-06. so as to bring it down to 3% of GSDP by the year ending March 2009"; (ii) in clause (c). in the second proviso, for the sign "."existing at the end. the sign ":"shall be substituted. ;and (iii) after clause (c). the following clauses shall be added at the end, namely :- "(d) bring out annual statement giving prospects for the State's economy and related fiscal strategy: and (e) bung out special reports along with the budget giving details of number of employees in Government, public- sector and aided institutions and their related salaries."
Haryana Fiscal Responsibility and Budget Management (Amendment) Act, 2005_Section 4--> State(s): Haryana In sub-section (5) of section 11 of the principal Act. the words 'independent of the State Government" shall be omitted. R.S. MADAN Secretary to Government. Haryana, Legislative Department. 
