Haryana General Sales Tax (Second Amendment) Act, 1986_Section Preamble--> State(s): Haryana An Act to amend the Haryana General Sales Tax Act, 1973. BE it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Haryana in the Thirty-seventh Year of the Republic of India as follows :-
Haryana General Sales Tax (Second Amendment) Act, 1986_Section 1--> State(s): Haryana This Act may be called the Haryana General Sales Tax (Second Amendment) Act, 1986.
Haryana General Sales Tax (Second Amendment) Act, 1986_Section 2--> State(s): Haryana In the proviso to sub-section (1) of section 9 of the Haryana General Sales Tax Act, 1973 (hereinafter called the principal Act), for the words "scientific goods and guargum". The words "scientific goods, guargum, utensils and metal handicrafts" shall be substituted.
Haryana General Sales Tax (Second Amendment) Act, 1986_Section 3--> State(s): Haryana In proviso to clause (b) of sub-section (1) of section 24 of the principal Act, for the words "scientific goods and guargum", the words "scientific goods, guargum, utensils and metal handicrafts" shall be substituted.
Haryana General Sales Tax (Second Amendment) Act, 1986_Section 4--> State(s): Haryana In sub-section (2) of section 57 of the principal Act, the words "or a retired gazetted officer of the Haryana Excise and Taxation Department who has worked as an assessing authority or an appellate authority or a revisional authority under the aforesaid Acts for a minimum period of five years in one or more than one of the aforesaid capacities after a period of two years has passed since the date of his retirement," shall be omitted. The Statement of Objects and Reasons and Financial Memorandum appended to the Haryana General Sales Tax (Second Amendment) Bill, 1986 (Bill No. 13-HLA of 1986) (Haryana Government Gazette, Extraordinary, dated 26th February, 1986, page 331.), run as follows : By making amendments in the Haryana General Sales Tax Act, 1973 the provision relating to levy of sales tax is being liberalised and relief is proposed to be granted to the utensils, metal and handicrafts in the event of export. The Bill also seeks approval to the withdrawal of concession/facility granted to the departmental retired gazetted officers to practise before the Assessing Authority. Hence the Bill. 
