Haryana General Sales Tax (Amendment) Act, 2000_Section Preamble--> State(s): Haryana An Act further to amend the Haryana General Sales Tax Act, 1973. BE it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Haryana in the Fifty-first Year of the Republic of India as follows: -
Haryana General Sales Tax (Amendment) Act, 2000_Section 1--> State(s): Haryana This Act may be called the Haryana General Sales Tax (Amendment) Act, 2000.
Haryana General Sales Tax (Amendment) Act, 2000_Section 2--> State(s): Haryana In section 25A of the Haryana General Sales Tax Act, 1973, (hereinafter called the Principal Act)(i) for sign "." existing at the end, the sign "." shall be submitted; and (ii) the following proviso shall be added at the end, namely: -" Provided that the State Government may convert whole or part of the deferred tax to interest free loan or capital subsidy.".
Haryana General Sales Tax (Amendment) Act, 2000_Section 3--> State(s): Haryana In Schedule A of the principal Act,-(i) for serial number 1 and entry thereagainst, the following serial number and entry thereagainst shall be substituted, namely: -" 1. Liquor i.e. country liquor, foreign liquor and Indian made foreign liquor including beer."; (ii) after serial number 4 and entry thereagainst, the following serial numbers and entries thereagainst shall be added at the end, namely: -" 5. Petroleum products ; 6. Narcotics ; 7. Molasses ; 8. Rectified Spirit.".
Haryana General Sales Tax (Amendment) Act, 2000_Section 4--> State(s): Haryana In Schedule B of the principal Act,-(i) for serial number 8 and entry thereagainst, the following serial number and entry thereagainst shall be substituted, namely: - " 8. Text books and literacy books excluding publications providing commercial information for specific category of person, industry, brochures, annual reports, souvenirs and review reports and the like publications, account books and diaries."; (ii) against serial number 14, in the existing entry, the words "or silken textiles" shall be omitted; (iii) for serial number 27 and entry thereagainst, the following serial number and entry and entry thereagainst shall be substituted, namely: -" 27. Fertilizers excluding oil cakes and de-oiled cakes."; (iv) serial number 30A and entries thereagainst shall be omitted; (v) for serial number 52 and entry thereagainst, the following serial number and entry thereagainst shall be substituted, namely: -" 56 Live stock and live poultry birds.".
Haryana General Sales Tax (Amendment) Act, 2000_Section 5--> State(s): Haryana (1) The Haryana General Sales Tax (Amendment) Ordinance, 2000. (Haryana Ordinance No. 2 of 2000) and the Haryana General Sales Tax (Second Amendment) Ordinance, 2000 (Haryana Ordinance No. 3 of 2000), are hereby repealed. (2) Notwithstanding such repeal, anything done or any action taken under the principal Act, as amended by the said Ordinances shall be deemed to have been done or taken under the principal Act, as amended by this Act. L.N.MITTAL, Secretary to Government, Haryana, 
