Haryana General Sales Tax (Third Amendment) Act, 1976_Section Preamble--> State(s): Haryana An Act to amend the Haryana General Sales Tax Act, 1973. BE it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Haryana in the Twenty-seventh year of the Republic of India as follows: -
Haryana General Sales Tax (Third Amendment) Act, 1976_Section 1--> State(s): Haryana (1) This Act may be called the Haryana General Sales Tax (Third Amendment) Act, 1976. (2) The following provisions of this Act shall be deemed to have come into force on the dates specified against them and the remaining provisions shall comes into force at once: -(i) clause (a) of section 2 ..... 7th September, 1955; (ii) clause (b) of section 2, ..... 1st April, 1976; sections 3, 5 and 6 (iii) sections 4, 8 and 9 .. 7th September, 1976.
Haryana General Sales Tax (Third Amendment) Act, 1976_Section 2--> State(s): Haryana In section 2 of the Haryana General Sales Tax Act,1973 (hereinafter referred to as the principal Act), -(a) in clause (c), -(i) for the words "in the normal course of trade", the words "carries on whether regularly or other wise, trade" shall be substituted; and (ii) for the words "purchases, sells, supplies or distributes, any goods, in the State, or imports into or exports out of the State", the words "of purchasing, selling, supplying or distributing any goods in the State, or importing into, or exporting out of, the State" shall be substituted; and (b) in clause (e), the words "or in the course of export out of the territory of India", shall be inserted at the end.
Haryana General Sales Tax (Third Amendment) Act, 1976_Section 3--> State(s): Haryana For sub-section (1) of section 9 of the principal Act, the following sub-section shall be substituted, namely: -"(1) Where a dealer liable to pay tax under this Act purchases goods, other than those specified in Schedule B, for any source in the State and- (a) uses them in the State in the manufacture of - (i) goods specified in Schedule B, or (ii) any other goods and disposes of the manufactured goods in any manner otherwise than by way of sale whether within the State or in the course of export out of the territory of India within the meaning of sub-section (1) of section 15 of the Central Sales Tax Act, 1956; (b) exports them, in the circumstances in which no tax is payable under any other provision of this Act, there shall be levied, subject to the provisions of section 17, a tax on the purchase of such goods at such rate as may be notified under section 15".
Haryana General Sales Tax (Third Amendment) Act, 1976_Section 4--> State(s): Haryana After clause (ii) of the proviso to sub-section 15 of the principal Act, the following clause shall be inserted, namely: -"(iii) in the case of rice procured out of paddy on the purchase of which a tax has been levied inside the State, tax leviable on such rice shall be reduce by the amount of tax levied on such paddy.". For section 24 of the principal Act, the following section shall be substituted, namely: -" 24.	Rights of registered dealer-Every dealer registered under this Act shall be entitled to purchase, without payment of sales tax, the following goods within the State, on the authority of his certificate of registration by giving to the dealer, from whom the goods are purchased, declaration, duly filled and signed by him, containing such particulars, on such form, obtained from such authority, as may be prescribed, and in case such form is not available with such authority, in such manner as may be prescribed,-(a) any goods, other than those leviable to tax at first stage of sale under section 17 or section 18, for the purpose of-(i) resale in the State; or (ii) sale in the course of inter-State trade or commerce;
Haryana General Sales Tax (Third Amendment) Act, 1976_Section 5--> State(s): Haryana In sub-section (1) of section 27 of the principal Act, -(i) to sub-clause (iv) of clause (a), the following provisos shall be added, namely; -" Provided that in the case of sale falling under sub-section (3) of section 5 of the Central Sales Tax Act, 1956, the dealer effecting such sale shall furnish assessing authority a declaration duly filled and signed by the dealer transacting the sale falling under sub-section (3) of section 5 of that Act, as may be prescribed, and in case may form is not available with such authority, in such manner, as may be prescribed: (ii) after sub-clause (b), the following sub-clause shall be inserted, namely: -"(iii) in the course(i) of the territory of India within the meaning of sub-section (1) of section 5 of the Central Sales Tax Act, 1956;"; (iii) after sub-clause (i) of clause (c), the following sub-clause shall be inserted, namely: -"(ii) in the course of export out of the territory of India within the meaning of sub-section (1) of section 5 of the Central Sales Tax Act, 1956;".
Haryana General Sales Tax (Third Amendment) Act, 1976_Section 7--> State(s): Haryana In clause (m) of sub-section (2) of section 64 of the principal Act for the words and figure "section 24", the words and figures "section 24 and 27" shall be substituted.
Haryana General Sales Tax (Third Amendment) Act, 1976_Section 8--> State(s): Haryana In Schedule C to the principal Act, the serial No. 2 and entries there against shall be omitted.
Haryana General Sales Tax (Third Amendment) Act, 1976_Section 9--> State(s): Haryana I Schedule D to the principal Act, after serial No. 24A and entries there against, the following serial No. and entries shall be inserted, namely: -" 2B. (a) (i) Wheat (ii) Jowar or milo (iii) bajra (iv) maize (v) ragi In all cases (vi) kodon Last sale in the State (vii) kutki by a dealer liable (viii) barley to pay tax under this (ix) gram or gulab gram Act. (x) tur or arhar (xi) moong or greem gram (xii) masur or lentil (xiii) urad or black gram (xiv) moth (xv) lakh or khesari (b) Paddy In all cases Last purchase in the State by a dealer liable to pay tax under this Act. Explanation: - The items referred to from (ix) to (xv) in clause (a) of serial No. 2B, whether whole or separate and whether with or without husk, shall be treated as single commodity for the purpose of levy of tax under this Act.". J.M. TANDAN, Secretary to Government Haryana, 
