Haryana General Sales Tax (Amendment) Act, 1996_Section Preamble--> State(s): Haryana An Act to amend the Haryana General Sales Tax Act, 1973. BE it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Haryana in the forty seventh year of the Republic of India as follows :-
Haryana General Sales Tax (Amendment) Act, 1996_Section 1--> State(s): Haryana This Act may be called the Haryana General Sales Tax (Amendment) Act, 1996.
Haryana General Sales Tax (Amendment) Act, 1996_Section 2--> State(s): Haryana In sub-section (4) of section 6 of the Haryana General Sales Tax Act, 1973 (hereinafter called the principal Act), for the word, sign, bracket and figures "sub-section (2)," the word, sign, bracket and figure "sub-section (1)" shall be substituted.
Haryana General Sales Tax (Amendment) Act, 1996_Section 3--> State(s): Haryana In section 7 of the principal Act,-(i) clause (ba) shall be omitted; and (ii) in clause (f), for the figures and signs "3,00,000" the figures and signs "5,00,000" shall be substituted.
Haryana General Sales Tax (Amendment) Act, 1996_Section 4--> State(s): Haryana In sub-section (1) of section 15 of the principal Act, for clause (a) and (b), the following clauses shall be substituted, namely :-"(a) twenty paise in a rupee in case of goods specified in Schedule A as the State Government may, by notification, direct subject to the condition and restriction as it may impose in this behalf ; and (b) twelve paise in a rupee in case of other goods, as the State Government may, by notification, direct subject to the condition and restriction as it may impose in this behalf ;
Haryana General Sales Tax (Amendment) Act, 1996_Section 5--> State(s): Haryana In section 15A of the principal Act, the following explanation shall be added and shall be deemed to have been added with effect from the 27 th May, 1971, namely :-" Explanation.- For the purpose of this section goods used in manufacture shall be goods used by a dealer as raw materials, processing materials, tools, stores, spares parts, accessories, fuel or lubricants, in the manufacture or processing of goods for sale and shall include containers and packing materials used for packing of the goods manufactured as processed."
Haryana General Sales Tax (Amendment) Act, 1996_Section 6--> State(s): Haryana Section 16 of the principal Act shall be omitted.
Haryana General Sales Tax (Amendment) Act, 1996_Section 7--> State(s): Haryana In section 18 of the principal Act, after the words and sign " sale thereof," the words and sign "subject to the conditions and restrictions as the Government may specify in this behalf," shall be inserted.
Haryana General Sales Tax (Amendment) Act, 1996_Section 8--> State(s): Haryana In section 25 of the principal Act,-(i) after sub-section (2), the following sub-section shall be inserted, namely:-"(2A) Every dealer who is liable to pay tax and who paid or was liable to pay tax including central sales tax according to the monthly or quarterly returns, as the case may be, filed by him under this Act or the Central Sales Tax Act, 1956, for the period of one year ending 31 st March last or part there of, equal to or exceeding rupees five lakhs, shall pay tax including central sales tax by the 15 th day of every month on his turnover of the previous month in the manner prescribed : Provided that if he is not able to quantify his tax liability accurate by that time, he shall pay one-twelfth of the tax which he was liable to pay according to the monthly or quarterly returns, as the case may be, filed by him under the Act and the Central Sales Tax Act, 1956, for the period of one year ending 31 st March Ist and in case he was not liable to pay tax for the full year or part thereof for which he has been liable to pay tax, and the balance, if any, he shall pay by the 25 th day of the month, and the excess, if any, he may adjust towards the tax payable in the next month or thereafter."; (ii) proviso to sub-section (3) shall be omitted ; and (iii) for sub-section (5), the following sub-section shall be substituted namely :-"( 5) If any dealer fails to pay tax, as required by sub-section (2A) or by sub-section (3), he shall be liable to pay in addition to the tax payable, simple interest on the amount of tax remaining unpaid at one per cent per month from the date commencing with the date following the last date for the payment of tax, for a period of one month and at one and a half per cent per month thereafter during the period he continues to make default in the payment : Provided that where the amount of tax not paid as required under sub-section (2A) or sub-section (3) does not exceed five hundred rupees, the interest payable thereon shall not exceed the amount of tax not so paid : Provided further that for the purpose of calculation of interest, a period of fifteen days or more shall be deemed to be one month and the amount of fifty rupees or more but less than one hundred rupees shall be deemed to be one hundred rupees and a period of less than fifteen days and an amount of less than fifty rupees shall be ignored.".
Haryana General Sales Tax (Amendment) Act, 1996_Section 9--> State(s): Haryana In clause (a) of sub-section (2) of section 35 of the principal Act, for the word "five", the words "two hundred fifty" shall be substituted.
Haryana General Sales Tax (Amendment) Act, 1996_Section 10--> State(s): Haryana Existing provisos to sub-section (2) of section 36 of the principal Act shall be omitted.
Haryana General Sales Tax (Amendment) Act, 1996_Section 11--> State(s): Haryana In sub-section (6) of section 37 of the principal Act, after the words and signs, "if, after the enquiry," the words and sign "including an enquiry into the nature of the transaction which occasioned the movement of goods," shall be inserted.
Haryana General Sales Tax (Amendment) Act, 1996_Section 12--> State(s): Haryana Section 38 of the Principal Act shall be omitted.
Haryana General Sales Tax (Amendment) Act, 1996_Section 13--> State(s): Haryana In clause (b) of sub-section (I) of section 39 of the principal Act, after the words and sign "Deputy Excise and Taxation Commissioner,", the words and sign "or any other officer not below the rank of a Deputy Excise and Taxation Commissioner," shall be inserted.
Haryana General Sales Tax (Amendment) Act, 1996_Section 14--> State(s): Haryana In sub-section (I) of section 40 of the principal Act,-(a) after the words and sign "or disposed of by,", the words, sign, bracket and figures " any officer appointed under sub-section (I) of section 3 of the Act to assist him or" shall be inserted ; and (b) in the first proviso, for the word "eighty years", the words "five years" shall be substituted.
Haryana General Sales Tax (Amendment) Act, 1996_Section 15--> State(s): Haryana In section 47 of the principal Act, for the words, sign, bracket and figures "sub-section (3)", the words, sign, brackets and figures "sub-section (2A) or sub-section (3)" shall be substituted.
Haryana General Sales Tax (Amendment) Act, 1996_Section 16--> State(s): Haryana For Schedule A of the principal Act, the following schedule shall be substituted namely:-" Schedule A Serial No. Description of goods 1. Liquor (Foreign Liquor and Indian made foreign liquor) 2. Lottery tickets. 3.
Haryana General Sales Tax (Amendment) Act, 1996_Section 17--> State(s): Haryana In Schedule B of the principal Act,-(i) in entry 34, for clause (ii), the following clause shall be substituted, namely :-"(ii) Chika of cereals excluding rice bran and paddy husk." (ii) for entry 77, the following entry shall be substituted, namely :-" 77. Bindi, Kajal, Sindhur, Mangalsutra, Mehandie, Rakhi and Yagyopavit.". M.K. BANSAL, Secretary to Government, Haryana, 
