Haryana Development and Regulation of Urban Areas (Second Amendment) Act, 2009_Section Preamble--> State(s): Haryana AN ACT further to amend the Haryana Development and Regulation of Urban Areas Act, 1975 Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Haryana in its Sixtieth Year of the Republic of India as follows :-
Haryana Development and Regulation of Urban Areas (Second Amendment) Act, 2009_Section 1--> State(s): Haryana This Act may be called the Haryana Development and Regulation of Urban Areas (Second Amendment) Act, 2009.
Haryana Development and Regulation of Urban Areas (Second Amendment) Act, 2009_Section 2--> State(s): Haryana After section 3B of the Haryana Development and Regulation of Urban Areas Act, 1975, the following section shall be inserted, namely :- "3C. Registration of independent residential floors:-(1) The registration of independent residential floors for the purpose of transfer, sale, gift, exchange or lease in perpetuity in a colony, for which a licence has been granted under this Act, shall be permitted as independent dwelling units : Provided that no sub-division of land under the residential dwelling unit shall be permitted and the registration shall be limited to only one dwelling unit on each floor. (2) The purchaser desiring registration under sub-section (1), shall be liable to pay a duty as notified by the Government from time to time, in addition to the stamp duty payable under the Indian Stamp Act, 1899, as applicable in the State of Haryana. (3) The said duty shall be collected by the Registrar or Sub-Registrar at the time of registration of the document in the manner specified under the Indian Stamp Act, 1899 and intimation thereof shall be sent to the Director immediately. (4) The amount of the duty collected under this Act shall be credited to the Fund established under section 3A of this Act.".
Haryana Development and Regulation of Urban Areas (Second Amendment) Act, 2009_Section 3--> State(s): Haryana (1) The Haryana Development and Regulation of Urban Areas (Amendment) Ordinance, 2009 (Haryana Ordinance No. 7 of 2009), is hereby repealed. (2) Notwithstanding such repeal, anything done or any action taken under the principal Act, as amended by the said Ordinance, shall be deemed to have been done or taken under the principal Act, as amended by this Act. P.L. AHUJA, Secretary to Government, Haryana, Law and Legislative Department. 
