Chhattisgarh Vidhan Sabha Sadasya (Vetan Bhatta Tatha Pension) (Sanshodhan) Adhiniyam, 2004_Section Preamble--> State(s): Chhattisgarh An Act further to amend the Chhattisgarh Vidhan Sabha Sadasya (Vetan, Bhatta Tatha Pension) Adhiniyam, 1972. Be it enacted by the Chhattisgarh Legislature in the Fifty-fifth Year of the Republic of India as follows : -
Chhattisgarh Vidhan Sabha Sadasya (Vetan Bhatta Tatha Pension) (Sanshodhan) Adhiniyam, 2004_Section 1--> State(s): Chhattisgarh (1) This Act may be called the Chhattisgarh Vidhan Sabha Sadasya (Vetan Bhatta Tatha Pension) (Sanshodhan) Adhiniyam, 2004.1 (2) It shall come into force from the date of its publication in the Gazette.2 Received the assent of the Governor on the 11th February, 2005 Published in Chhattisgarh Rajpatra (Asadharan) dated 15-2-2005.
Chhattisgarh Vidhan Sabha Sadasya (Vetan Bhatta Tatha Pension) (Sanshodhan) Adhiniyam, 2004_Section 2--> State(s): Chhattisgarh In Section 4 of the Chhattisgarh Vidhan Sabha Sadasya (Vetan Bhatta Tatha Pension) Adhiniyam, 1972 (No. 7 of 1973) (hereinafter referred to as the Principal Act), for the words "Three Thousand" the words "Five Thousand" shall be substituted.
Chhattisgarh Vidhan Sabha Sadasya (Vetan Bhatta Tatha Pension) (Sanshodhan) Adhiniyam, 2004_Section 3--> State(s): Chhattisgarh In Section 4-A of the Principal Act, for the words "Four Thousand" the words "Five Thousand" shall be substituted.
Chhattisgarh Vidhan Sabha Sadasya (Vetan Bhatta Tatha Pension) (Sanshodhan) Adhiniyam, 2004_Section 4--> State(s): Chhattisgarh In Section 4-B of the Principal Act, for the words "One Thousand" the words "Two Thousand" shall be substituted.
Chhattisgarh Vidhan Sabha Sadasya (Vetan Bhatta Tatha Pension) (Sanshodhan) Adhiniyam, 2004_Section 5--> State(s): Chhattisgarh For sub-section (ii) of Section 4-C the following sub-section shall be substituted, namely : - "(ii) For those days in which a member attended the meetings of Vidhan Sabha/Committees. In Capital or out of State for such meetings member entitled to additional daily allowance at the rate of Rs. 250/- per day before a day and after a day of the date of such meeting."
Chhattisgarh Vidhan Sabha Sadasya (Vetan Bhatta Tatha Pension) (Sanshodhan) Adhiniyam, 2004_Section 6--> State(s): Chhattisgarh After Section 4-C of the Principal Act, the following Section shall be inserted, namely : - "4-D. There shall be to every member stationery allowance of Four Thousand rupees per mensem."
Chhattisgarh Vidhan Sabha Sadasya (Vetan Bhatta Tatha Pension) (Sanshodhan) Adhiniyam, 2004_Section 7--> State(s): Chhattisgarh In Section 5-A of the Principal Act,- (i) in sub-section (1) for the words "Seventy Five Thousand" the words "One Lac Twenty Five Thousand" shall be substituted; (ii) for first proviso of the sub-section (1) the following proviso shall be substituted, namely : - "Provided that every member shall be entitled for both side Five Air Journies with one person accompanying him"; (iii) in sub-section (2), for the words "Forty Thousand" the words "Sixty Thousand" shall be substituted; and after sub-section (2) the following proviso shall be added, namely : - "Provided that such person within limit "Sixty Thousand" shall be entitled for Three Air Journies".
Chhattisgarh Vidhan Sabha Sadasya (Vetan Bhatta Tatha Pension) (Sanshodhan) Adhiniyam, 2004_Section 8--> State(s): Chhattisgarh In Section 6-A of the Principal Act, for the words "Three Thousand Five Hundred" the words "Ten Thousand" shall be substituted.
Chhattisgarh Vidhan Sabha Sadasya (Vetan Bhatta Tatha Pension) (Sanshodhan) Adhiniyam, 2004_Section 9--> State(s): Chhattisgarh For Section 6-B the following Section shall be substituted, namely : - "6-B. There shall be paid a pension of rupees five thousand per mensem to the spouse if any or dependent of a member/ex-member for a period of ten years from the date of his death".
Chhattisgarh Vidhan Sabha Sadasya (Vetan Bhatta Tatha Pension) (Sanshodhan) Adhiniyam, 2004_Section 10--> State(s): Chhattisgarh In Section 7-1 of the Principal Act, for the words "one thousand five hundred" the words "three thousand" shall be substituted. 
