Chhattisgarh Agricultural Cattle Preservation (Amendment) Act, 2011_Section Preamble--> State(s): Chhattisgarh An Act to amend the Chhattisgarh Agricultural Cattle Preservation Act, 2004. Be it enacted by the Chhattisgarh Legislature in the Sixty-second Year of the Republic of India as follows :-
Chhattisgarh Agricultural Cattle Preservation (Amendment) Act, 2011_Section 1--> State(s): Chhattisgarh (1) This Act be called the Chhattisgarh Agricultural Cattle Preservation (Amendment) Act, 2011.1 (2) It extends to the whole of the State of Chhattisgarh. (3) It shall come into force from the date of its publication in the Official Gazette.2 Received the assent of the Governor on the 9th January, 2012. Published in the Chhattisgarh Rajpatra (Asadharan) dated 13-01-2012.
Chhattisgarh Agricultural Cattle Preservation (Amendment) Act, 2011_Section 2--> State(s): Chhattisgarh For section 2 of Chhattisgarh Agricultural Cattle Preservation Act, 2004 (No. 28 of 2006) (hereinafter referred to as the Principal Act), the following shall be substituted, namely ;- "2. In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires,- (a) "Agricultural Cattle" means an animal specified in Schedule I; (b) "Agricultural Cattle Welfare Officer" means an officer who shall work for the implementation of the provisions of this Act as search and seizure of agricultural cattle, search and seizure of vehicles, to take cattle into custody and to initiate prosecution; (c) "Beef’ means flesh of agricultural cattle; (d) "Competent Authority" means such authority or person as may be prescribed; (e) "Institution" means any charitable institution registered under any enactment for the time being in force, established for the purpose of keeping, breeding and maintaining agricultural cattle or for the purpose of reception, protection, care, management and treatment of infirm, aged and diseased cow progeny; (f) "Schedule" means schedule appended to this Act; (g) "Slaughter" means killing by any method whatsoever and includes maiming or inflicting of physical injury which in the ordinary course will cause death; (h) "Transport" means carrying agricultural cattle through vehicle or through walking or through any other means; (i) "Vehicle" means any mechanically or manually driven conveyance used on land water or air."
Chhattisgarh Agricultural Cattle Preservation (Amendment) Act, 2011_Section 3--> State(s): Chhattisgarh In Section 3, Section 13 and Section 17 of the Principal Act the words "Veterinary Officer" wherever they occur shall be substituted by the words "Agricultural Cattle Welfare Officer".
Chhattisgarh Agricultural Cattle Preservation (Amendment) Act, 2011_Section 4--> State(s): Chhattisgarh (1) Section 6 of the Principal Act, shall be renumbered as; "6 (1)" (2) After sub-section (1) of Section 6 of the Principal Act, the following shall be added, namely :- "(2) Whenever any person transports or causes to be transported in contravention of provisions of sub-section (1) any agricultural cattle as specified in the Schedule, such vehicle or any conveyance used in transporting such animal alongwith such agricultural cattle shall be liable to be seized by such authority or officer as the State Government may appoint in this behalf. (3) The vehicle or conveyance so seized under sub-section (2) shall not be released by the order of the court on bond or surety before the expiry of six months from the date of such seizure or till the final judgment of the court, whichever is earlier and such vehicle shall also be liable for confiscation at the end of the trial."
Chhattisgarh Agricultural Cattle Preservation (Amendment) Act, 2011_Section 5--> State(s): Chhattisgarh In Section 10 of the Principal Act, for the word "three" the word "seven" and for the word "ten" the word "fifty" shall be substituted.
Chhattisgarh Agricultural Cattle Preservation (Amendment) Act, 2011_Section 6--> State(s): Chhattisgarh The Schedule appended to the Principal Act, shall be substituted by the following, namely :- "Schedule [See Section 2 (a)] Agricultural Cattle- 1. Cows of all ages. 2. Calves of cows and of she buffaloes. 3. Bulls 4. Bullocks. 5. Male, Female buffaloes." 
