Chhattisgarh Vidhan Sabha Sadasya Vetan, Bhatta Tatha Pension (Sanshodhan) Adhiniyam, 2008_Section Preamble--> State(s): Chhattisgarh An Act further to amend the Chhattisgarh Vidhan Sabha Sadasya Vetan, Bhatta Tatha Pension Adhiniyam, 1972 . Be it enacted by the Chhattisgarh Legislature in the Fifty-ninth year of the Republic of India as follows ;-
Chhattisgarh Vidhan Sabha Sadasya Vetan, Bhatta Tatha Pension (Sanshodhan) Adhiniyam, 2008_Section 1--> State(s): Chhattisgarh (1) This Act may be called the Chhattisgarh Vidhan Sabha Sadasya Vetan, Bhatta Tatha Pension (Sanshodhan) Adhiniyam, 2008.1 (2) It shall come into force from the date of its publication in the Official Gazette.2 Received the assent of the Governor on the 1st May, 2008. Published in Chhattisgarh Rajpatra (Asadharan) dated 9-5-2008.
Chhattisgarh Vidhan Sabha Sadasya Vetan, Bhatta Tatha Pension (Sanshodhan) Adhiniyam, 2008_Section 2--> State(s): Chhattisgarh Principal Act means the Chhattisgarh Vidhan Sabha Sadasya Vetan, Bhatta Tatha Pension Adhiniyam, 1972 (No. 7 of 1973).
Chhattisgarh Vidhan Sabha Sadasya Vetan, Bhatta Tatha Pension (Sanshodhan) Adhiniyam, 2008_Section 3--> State(s): Chhattisgarh (1) In sub-section (1) of Section 5-A of the Principal Act for the words "Rs. One Lac Twenty Five Thousand" the words "Rs. Two Lac" shall be substituted. (2) For first proviso for sub-section (1) of Section 5-A of the Principal Act, the following shall be substituted, namely :- "Provided that every member may travel alone or with one more person subject to the condition that expenditure on the journeys performed by rail and air shall not exceed Rupees Two Lac in a financial year." (3) In sub-section (2) of Section 5-A of the Principal Act for the words "Rs. Sixty Thousand" the words "Rs. One Lac" shall be substituted. (4) In sub-section (2) of Section 5-A of the Principal Act for the figure, bracket and letter "6(A)", the figure and letter "6-A" shall be substituted.
Chhattisgarh Vidhan Sabha Sadasya Vetan, Bhatta Tatha Pension (Sanshodhan) Adhiniyam, 2008_Section 4--> State(s): Chhattisgarh In the second proviso to Section 6-A (1) of the Principal Act, after the words "or where a member having been elected in a bye election" the words "or as a member of Lok Sabha/Rajya Sabha" shall be inserted.
Chhattisgarh Vidhan Sabha Sadasya Vetan, Bhatta Tatha Pension (Sanshodhan) Adhiniyam, 2008_Section 5--> State(s): Chhattisgarh For Section of the Principal Act, the following shall be substituted, namely :- "6-C. Every person who is entitled to pension under Section 6-A, shall be entitled for medical reimbursement similar to claim under sub-section (2) of Section 7 and shall also be paid medical allowance of One thousand five hundred rupees per month."
Chhattisgarh Vidhan Sabha Sadasya Vetan, Bhatta Tatha Pension (Sanshodhan) Adhiniyam, 2008_Section 6--> State(s): Chhattisgarh In sub-section (2) of Section 7 of the Principal Act, the words "for himself" shall be omitted. 
