Chhattisgarh Special Police Establishment Act, 1947_Section Preamble--> State(s): Chhattisgarh An Act to make provision of the constitution of a special police force for the investigation of certain offences affecting the public administration, for the superintendence and administration of the said force and jurisdiction of members of the said force in regard to the investigation of the said offences. Whereas it is expedient to make provision for the constitution of a special police force for the investigation of certain offences affecting the public administration, for the superintendence and Administration of the said force and jurisdiction of members of the said force in regard to the investigation of the said offences; It is hereby enacted as follows:-
Chhattisgarh Special Police Establishment Act, 1947_Section 1--> State(s): Chhattisgarh (1) This Act may be cited as the Chhattisgarh Special Police Establishment Act, 1947.1 (2) It extends to and shall be in force in the whole of Chhattisgarh. Received the assent of the Governor on the 12th May, 1947. Published in the Central Provinces and Berar Gazette on the 23rd May, 1947.
Chhattisgarh Special Police Establishment Act, 1947_Section 2--> State(s): Chhattisgarh (1) Notwithstanding anything contained in the Police Act, 1861 (5 of 1861), the State Government may constitute a special police force to be called Chhattisgarh Special Police Establishment for the investigation of offences notified under Section 3. (2) Subject to any orders which the Stale Government may make in this behalf members of the said police establishment shall have, in relation to the investigation of such offences and arrest of persons concerned in such offences, all the powers, duties, privileges and liabilities which police officers have in connection with the investigation of offences. (3) Any member of the said police establishment of or above the rank of Sub-Inspector may, subject to any orders which the State Government may make in this behalf, exercise any of the powers of an officer in charge of a police station in the areas in which he is for the time being and when so exercising such powers shall, subject to any such orders as aforesaid, be deemed to be an officer in charge of a police station discharging the functions of such officer within the limits of his station.
Chhattisgarh Special Police Establishment Act, 1947_Section 3--> State(s): Chhattisgarh The State Government may, by notification, specify the offences or classes of offences which are to be investigated by Chhattisgarh Special Police Establishment.
Chhattisgarh Special Police Establishment Act, 1947_Section 4--> State(s): Chhattisgarh (1) The Superintendence of Chhattisgarh Special Police Establishment shall vest in the Lokayukt appointed under Section 3 of the Chhattisgarh Lokayukt Evam Up-Lokayukt Adhiniyam, 19812 (No. 37 of 1981). (1-a) Without prejudice to the generality of the power of Superintendence, the Lokayukt may call from the Director Special Police Establishment returns and may issue general directions for regulating practice and procedure to be adopted by the Special Police Establishment. (2) The administration of the said police establishment shall vest in the Inspector General of Police, Chhattisgarh who shall exercise in respect of that police establishment such of the powers exercisable by him in respect of the police force in the State as the State Government may specify in this behalf. Substituted by M.P. Act No. 19 of 1984. See now the Chhattisgarh Lok Ayog Adhiniyam, 2002 (No. 30 of 2002). 
