Chhattisgarh Anadhikrit Vikas Ka Niyamitikaran Adhiniyam, 2002_Section Preamble--> State(s): Chhattisgarh An Act to regularize the unauthorized developments in the planning area in the State of Chhattisgarh by vesting certain powers specified herein, in an authority to exercise, perform and discharge the duties entrusted to them within specified duration of time. Be it enacted by the Chhattisgarh Legislative Assembly in the Fifty third year of the Republic of India as follows :-
Chhattisgarh Anadhikrit Vikas Ka Niyamitikaran Adhiniyam, 2002_Section 1--> State(s): Chhattisgarh (1) This Act may be called the Chhattisgarh Anadhikrit Vikas Ka Niyamitikaran Adhiniyam, 2002.1 (2) It extends to the whole of Chhattisgarh. (3) It shall come into force on such date as the State Government may, by notification, appoint. Received the assent of the Governor on the 18th April, 2002.
Chhattisgarh Anadhikrit Vikas Ka Niyamitikaran Adhiniyam, 2002_Section 2--> State(s): Chhattisgarh The provisions of this Act shall apply to such unauthorized developments which were in existence on or before the date notified by the State Government.
Chhattisgarh Anadhikrit Vikas Ka Niyamitikaran Adhiniyam, 2002_Section 3--> State(s): Chhattisgarh (1) In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires,- (i) "Authority" means an authority constituted under section 4 of the Act. (ii) "Builder" means and includes, a person or group of persons engaged in construction of building or creation of any other engineering structure in, or on any piece of land, in the planning area. (iii) "Government" means State Government of Chhattisgarh. (iv) "Road line" means both limiting sides of any public road. (v) "Unauthorized development" means development of any site without any permission or contrary to the permission granted or deviation of land use or deviation from the permission granted under the provisions of the Chhattisgarh Nagar Tatha Gram Nivesh Adhiniyam, 1973 (No. 23 or 1973) or any of the acts for the time being in force or any rules or byelaws made there under. (iv) "Regularisation" for the purpose of this Act means, regularisation of the unauthorized development by the Authority under Section 5(l)(ii). (2) Words And expressions used in this Act, but not defined herein, shall have the same meaning as given in the Chhattisgarh Nagar Tatha Gram Nivesh Adhiniyam, 1973 and rules made there under.
Chhattisgarh Anadhikrit Vikas Ka Niyamitikaran Adhiniyam, 2002_Section 4--> State(s): Chhattisgarh (1) The State Government shall constitute for each district an authority to be called the "District Regularisation Authority" for the purpose of regularisation of unauthorized development. (2) The District Regularisation Authority shall consist of the following members namely :- (a) Collector or the District Chairman (b) District Superintendent of Police Member (c) The Municipal Commissioner/Chief Municipal Officer of the concerned Urban Local body, for the cases of their respective areas. Member (d) Chief Executive Officer of the concerned Development Authority, for their respective areas. Member (e) Officer of Town & Country Planning Department in-charge of the district. Member-Secretary
Chhattisgarh Anadhikrit Vikas Ka Niyamitikaran Adhiniyam, 2002_Section 5--> State(s): Chhattisgarh The authority may receive applications, through competent officer appointed for this purpose for regularisation of unauthorized development from the affected persons within the time limit and in the manner as prescribed by the Government under the rules framed for this purpose.
Chhattisgarh Anadhikrit Vikas Ka Niyamitikaran Adhiniyam, 2002_Section 6--> State(s): Chhattisgarh (1) The District Regularization Authority shall have the following powers :- (i) On receipt of application under Section 5, it may call for any record or information regarding unauthorized developments in any planning area within the district. On the basis of such records and information, the Authority may either reject the application or take a decision for regularisation of unauthorized development in accordance with Section 7 of this Act; (ii) In case, the Authority decides in favour of regularisation, it shall, after due consideration, impose penalty on the applicant for such development. The Authority may collect such penalty in suitable instalments together with interest, in case the applicant makes a written request for payment in instalments, within 14 days of the order by the Authority; (iii) For the purpose of imposing penalty, the Authority shall evaluate an unauthorized development on the basis of prevailing market value of the land, construction, etc. The Authority shall also evaluate its monthly rent. (iv) The Authority shall determine penalty on the basis of such evaluation done and the cost of development of basic infrastructure in the vicinity, which may be required because of the unauthorized development; (v) Upon compliance of the order issued by the Authority, and deposit of the regularisation penalty, such development would cease to be unauthorized and a certificate to that effect will be issued to the applicant, by the Authority in such proforma as may be prescribed. (2) The Authority shall have the same powers as are conferred on the High-Rise Building Committee under the provisions of the Chhattisgarh Nagar Tatha Gram Nivesh Adhiniyam, 1973. (3) The Authority may, if it considers necessary, take the services or opinion of any registered structural engineer, town planner or architect in deciding applications under Section 5. (4) The Authority shall exercise such other powers as may be assigned to it by the Government for the purpose of regularisation of unauthorized development.
Chhattisgarh Anadhikrit Vikas Ka Niyamitikaran Adhiniyam, 2002_Section 7--> State(s): Chhattisgarh (1) The District Regularisation Authority shall not regularise an unauthorized development if,- (i) the land belongs to Government, local authority, or a statutory body. (ii) the construction is affecting the defined building line or is falling within the Road-lines. (iii) the land has been allotted by the Government, local authority or statutory body for a specific purpose, other than the one for which development has been done. (iv) the area of construction is on tank bed or tank bank or natural drainage. (v) in case of multi-storeyed buildings, the building is obstructing the view of any heritage building site or is violating the prescribed norms for fire safety or structural stability. (vi) the area is earmarked for industries which use or produce hazardous substances. (vii) it is not in public interest to do so. (2) If the unauthorized development is on parking spaces or on areas earmarked for recreational use in the development plan, regularisation shall be permitted only when an alternative area has been provided by the applicant in close vicinity of the constructed site. (3) No regularisation of unauthorized high-rise building shall be considered, if it contravenes any of the provisions of the Chhattisgarh Nagar Tatha Gram Nivesh Adhiniyam, 1973. (4) The authority may regularise part of the unauthorized development also, looking to the attending circumstances. (5) Regularisation will not entitle the applicant for any other services or claims arising thereof.
Chhattisgarh Anadhikrit Vikas Ka Niyamitikaran Adhiniyam, 2002_Section 8--> State(s): Chhattisgarh The authority having jurisdiction, shall take appropriate action against an unauthorized development according to the provisions of the relevant Acts and Rules made there under if,- (i) the owner, or occupier or builder of the unauthorized development does not apply for regularisation within the prescribed time limit. (ii) the application has been rejected under Section 6(l)(i). (iii) the applicant fails to deposit the penalty for regularisation.
Chhattisgarh Anadhikrit Vikas Ka Niyamitikaran Adhiniyam, 2002_Section 9--> State(s): Chhattisgarh (1) Any person, aggrieved by an order passed by the Authority, may appeal to the Divisional Commissioner within thirty days from the date of such order. (2) In case the appeal is filed by the applicant as mentioned in section 5, the appeal shall not be admitted for hearing by the Divisional Commissioner unless the appellant has deposited 50% of the penalty for regularisation. The applicant must deposit the monthly rent of the unauthorized development regularly, as decided by the Authority, during the pendency of the appeal. (3) Any person, aggrieved by an order passed by the Divisional Commissioner may file an appeal to the Government within thirty days from the date of such an order : Provided that the appellant shall regularly deposit the monthly rent for the unauthorized development as decided by the Authority under this Act during the pendency of the appeal.
Chhattisgarh Anadhikrit Vikas Ka Niyamitikaran Adhiniyam, 2002_Section 10--> State(s): Chhattisgarh (1) The Government may either suo-moto, or on an application filed by any person, for the purpose of satisfying itself as to the correctness, legality or propriety of any order passed by Divisional Commissioner or Authority under this Act, call for the records and may also direct that pending examination of the record, such order be held in abeyance. (2) The Government may modify or reverse the orders of the Divisional Commissioner or Authority under this Act as it may deem fit. No such order shall be passed by the Government unless the interested parties have been given an opportunity of being heard.
Chhattisgarh Anadhikrit Vikas Ka Niyamitikaran Adhiniyam, 2002_Section 11--> State(s): Chhattisgarh The penalty, rental value and other accruals received under the provisions of this Act shall be credited to the Government treasury.
Chhattisgarh Anadhikrit Vikas Ka Niyamitikaran Adhiniyam, 2002_Section 12--> State(s): Chhattisgarh (1) Notwithstanding anything contained in any law for the time being in force, no suit, prosecution or other legal proceedings shall lie against any officer or Authority for anything which has been done in good faith or intended to be done in pursuance of the provisions of this Act or rules made there under. (2) No suit or other legal proceeding shall lie against the Government or any authority under the Government for any damage caused or likely to be caused by anything which has been done or any action taken in good faith or intended to be done in pursuance of this Act or rules made there under.
Chhattisgarh Anadhikrit Vikas Ka Niyamitikaran Adhiniyam, 2002_Section 13--> State(s): Chhattisgarh The Government may make rules for the purposes of effectively carrying out the provisions of this Act. Such rules may provide for all or any of the following matters, namely :- (i) procedure to be followed in regularisation of unauthorized development; (ii) norms for imposition of regularisation penalty ; (iii) procedure for collection and utilisation of penalty for regularisation ; (iv) procedure for exercise of powers conferred to the Authority under Section 6 of this Act.
Chhattisgarh Anadhikrit Vikas Ka Niyamitikaran Adhiniyam, 2002_Section 14--> State(s): Chhattisgarh Notwithstanding anything contained in Chhattisgarh Nagar Tatha Gram Nivesh Adhiniyam, 1973 (No. 23 of 1973), Chhattisgarh Municipal Corporation Act, 1956 (No. 23 of 1956), Chhattisgarh Municipalities Act, 1961 (No. 37 of 1961) or Chhattisgarh Panchayat Raj Adhiniyam, 1993 (No. 1 of 1994) any local government, as the case may be, in relation to the unauthorized development under the provisions of this Act, from the date of commencement of this Act, shall cease to exercise the powers, perform the functions, and discharge duties which the State Government, Divisional Commissioner, and the Authority is competent to exercise, perform and discharge under this Act.
Chhattisgarh Anadhikrit Vikas Ka Niyamitikaran Adhiniyam, 2002_Section 15--> State(s): Chhattisgarh No civil suit of any nature against any of the orders passed under the provisions of this Act will be maintainable before any court.
Chhattisgarh Anadhikrit Vikas Ka Niyamitikaran Adhiniyam, 2002_Section 16--> State(s): Chhattisgarh If any difficulty arises in giving effect to the provisions of this Act, the Government may, by order, not inconsistent with the provisions, remove the difficulty. 
