Chhattisgarh Sthaniya Kshetra Me Mal Ke Pravesh Par Kar (Sanshodhan) Adhiniyam, 2001_Section Preamble--> State(s): Chhattisgarh An Act further to amend the Chhattisgarh Sthaniya Kshetra Me Mal Ke Pravesh Par Kar Adhiniyam, 1976. Be it enacted by the Chhattisgarh Legislature in the Fifty-second Year of the Republic of India as follows :-
Chhattisgarh Sthaniya Kshetra Me Mal Ke Pravesh Par Kar (Sanshodhan) Adhiniyam, 2001_Section 1--> State(s): Chhattisgarh This Act may be called the Chhattisgarh Sthaniya Kshetra Me Mal Ke Pravesh Par Kar (Sanshodhan) Adhiniyam, 20011 . Published in Chhattisgarh Rajpatra (Asadharan) dated 4-9-2001.
Chhattisgarh Sthaniya Kshetra Me Mal Ke Pravesh Par Kar (Sanshodhan) Adhiniyam, 2001_Section 2--> State(s): Chhattisgarh It extends to the whole of Chhattisgarh State.
Chhattisgarh Sthaniya Kshetra Me Mal Ke Pravesh Par Kar (Sanshodhan) Adhiniyam, 2001_Section 3--> State(s): Chhattisgarh It shall come into force on the date of publication in the Official Gazette.
Chhattisgarh Sthaniya Kshetra Me Mal Ke Pravesh Par Kar (Sanshodhan) Adhiniyam, 2001_Section 4--> State(s): Chhattisgarh (i) In heading of Section 4-A of the Chhattisgarh Sthaniya Kshetra Me Mal Ke Pravesh Par Kar Adhiniyam, 1976 (No. 52 of 1976) (hereinafter referred to as the Principal Act), after the words "other goods" the words "and on packing materials" shall be added. (ii) In section 4-A of the Principal Act for the word "ten", the word "fifty" shall be substituted. (iii) In sub-section (1) of Section 4-A of the Principal Act after the words "other goods" the words "or as packing materials" shall be added.
Chhattisgarh Sthaniya Kshetra Me Mal Ke Pravesh Par Kar (Sanshodhan) Adhiniyam, 2001_Section 5--> State(s): Chhattisgarh In Section 14 of the Principal Act for the word "penalty", wherever it occurs, the words "penalty or interest" shall be substituted.
Chhattisgarh Sthaniya Kshetra Me Mal Ke Pravesh Par Kar (Sanshodhan) Adhiniyam, 2001_Section 6--> State(s): Chhattisgarh In Schedule I of the Principal Act, in entry number 2 in column (2) for the present entry, following entry shall be substituted ; "All kinds of cereals and pulses excluding paddy.".
Chhattisgarh Sthaniya Kshetra Me Mal Ke Pravesh Par Kar (Sanshodhan) Adhiniyam, 2001_Section 7--> State(s): Chhattisgarh (i) In entry 10 of Schedule II of the Principal Act in column (3) for the number "3" the number "10" shall be substituted. (ii) In Schedule II of the Principal Act, after entry number 56 following entry shall be added:- "57. Paddy 5". 
