Chhattisgarh Municipal Corporation (Amendment) Act, 2012_Section Preamble--> State(s): Chhattisgarh An Act further to amend the Chhattisgarh Municipal Corporation Act, 1956. Be it enacted by the Chhattisgarh Legislature in the Sixty-third Year of the Republic of India, as follows :-
Chhattisgarh Municipal Corporation (Amendment) Act, 2012_Section 1--> State(s): Chhattisgarh (1) This Act may be called the Chhattisgarh Municipal Corporation (Amendment) Act, 2012.1 (2) It shall come into force from the date of its publication in the Official Gazette.2 Received the assent of the Governor on the 1st August, 2012. Published in the Chhattisgarh Rajpatra (Asadharan) dated 09-08-2012.
Chhattisgarh Municipal Corporation (Amendment) Act, 2012_Section 2--> State(s): Chhattisgarh (i) In Section 5 of the Chhattisgarh Municipal Corporation Act, 1956 (No. 23 of 1956) (hereinafter referred to as the Principal Act), existing sub-section (18-a) shall be renumbered as "(18-b)’\ (ii) After sub-section (18) of Section 5 of the Principal Act, the following shall be inserted, namely :- "(18-a) "Director" means the Director of Urban Administration and Development, appointed by the State Government;" (iii) After sub-section (19) of Section 5, the following shall be inserted, namely :- "(19-a) "Divisional Commissioner" means the Divisional Commissioner appointed by the State Government under the Chhattisgarh Land Revenue Code, 1959 (No. 20 of 1959)." (iv) After sub-section (49) of Section 5, the following shall be inserted, namely :- "(49-a) "Registered Architect/Structural Engineer/Engineer" means the same as defined in Chhattisgarh Bhumi Vikas Niyam, 1984. framed under the Chhattisgarh Nagar Tatha Gram Nivesh Adhiniyam, 1973 (No. 23 of 1973);" (v) After sub-section (54-a) of Section 5, the following shall be inserted, namely :- "(54-b) "Social Audit" means the review of the impact of policies, programmes. schemes or procedure adopted or implemented by any municipal authority, by a group or groups of persons residing within the municipal area within which such review is conducted;" (vi) After sub-section (57) of Section 5, the following shall be inserted, namely :- "(57-a) "User Charges" means the charges imposed under Section 132-A for services rendered or are proposed to be rendered by the Corporation;"
Chhattisgarh Municipal Corporation (Amendment) Act, 2012_Section 3--> State(s): Chhattisgarh After clause (a) of sub-section (1) of Section 19 of the Principal Act, the following shall be inserted, namely :- "(a-1) if it is found that he does not belong to the reserved category for which the seat was reserved, or,"
Chhattisgarh Municipal Corporation (Amendment) Act, 2012_Section 4--> State(s): Chhattisgarh In sub-section (1) of Section 19-B of the Principal Act, for the words "or the rules made thereunder" the words "or the rules made thereunder or if it is found that the Mayor does not belong to the reserved category for which the seat was reserved," shall be substituted.
Chhattisgarh Municipal Corporation (Amendment) Act, 2012_Section 5--> State(s): Chhattisgarh In Section 25-B of the Principal Act, for the word "Remuneration" the word "Honorarium" shall be substituted.
Chhattisgarh Municipal Corporation (Amendment) Act, 2012_Section 6--> State(s): Chhattisgarh (i) For sub-section (2) of Section 29 of the Principal Act, the following shall be substituted, namely - "(2) The date of every meeting except the meeting referred to in Section 18 and 23-A, shall be fixed by the Speaker with the consent of the Mayor or in the event of his being incapable of acting, by the Mayor : Provided that if the date of the meeting is not fixed by the Speaker or the Mayor, as the case may be, the Divisional Commissioner shall fix the date of the meeting under intimation to the State Government." (ii) After sub-section (4) of Section 29, the following shall be inserted, namely :- "(5) The process of preparing the agenda for the meeting shall be as may be prescribed by the State Government."
Chhattisgarh Municipal Corporation (Amendment) Act, 2012_Section 7--> State(s): Chhattisgarh For Section 53 of the Principal Act, the following shall be substituted, namely :- "53. Minutes of the meeting.-Minutes of the proceedings of every Meeting of the Corporation, Mayor-in-Council or any Committee shall be recorded in such manner as may be prescribed."
Chhattisgarh Municipal Corporation (Amendment) Act, 2012_Section 8--> State(s): Chhattisgarh In sub-section (6) of Section 60 of the Principal Act, for the words "the State Public Service Commission" wherever they occur the words "the Divisional Commissioner" shall be substituted.
Chhattisgarh Municipal Corporation (Amendment) Act, 2012_Section 9--> State(s): Chhattisgarh In sub-section (1) of Section 68 of the Principal Act, for the word "Schedule" the word and figure "Schedule-I" shall be substituted.
Chhattisgarh Municipal Corporation (Amendment) Act, 2012_Section 10--> State(s): Chhattisgarh After Section 130-B of the Principal Act, the following shall be inserted, namely :- "130-C. Social Audit-Notwithstanding anything contained in this Act, the Municipal Corporation shall arrange for Social Audit in such manner as may be prescribed by the State Government."
Chhattisgarh Municipal Corporation (Amendment) Act, 2012_Section 11--> State(s): Chhattisgarh After Section 132 of the Principal Act, the following shall be inserted, namely :- "132-A. Imposition of User Charges - (1) Notwithstanding anything contained in Section 132, the Corporation shall, subject to any general or special order which the State Government may make in this regard, levy user charges for the services mentioned in sub-section (2) in the following circumstances, namely :- (a) when it introduces a new system or project for improved service delivery; (b) when a service is improved in terms of service levels. (2) The user charges under sub-section (1) may be levied on one or more of the following service, namely :- (a) water supply ; (b) drainage or sewerage disposal and/or treatment. (c) door-to-door collection of solid waste, and/or scientific system for disposal of municipal waste; (d) any other new service rendered by the Corporation. (3) User charges may be levied on the municipal area or any part thereof as may be specified by the Corporation on specific areas of the city where the service referred to under sub-section (1) is provided."
Chhattisgarh Municipal Corporation (Amendment) Act, 2012_Section 12--> State(s): Chhattisgarh In clause (6) of Section 134 of the Principal Act, after the words "of rent due in respect of the property" the words "and/or attachment and sale of his movable and/or immovable property;" shall be added.
Chhattisgarh Municipal Corporation (Amendment) Act, 2012_Section 13--> State(s): Chhattisgarh (i) For clause (b) and proviso of Section 136 of the Principal Act, the following shall be substituted, namely :- "(b) all kutcha dwelling units having country title (Kawelu) roof and measuring not more than 500 square feet and all buildings and lands belonging to or occupied by the urban poor as may be exempted by the State Government through notification." (ii) For clause (c) of Section 136, the following shall be substituted, namely :- "(c) educational institutions of Government of India, State Government, Municipal Corporations, registered Charitable Trusts, educational institutions registered under Section 12A of the Income Tax Act, 1961, shall be wholly exempted and other educational institutions may be given a rebate of upto fifty percent of the property tax as assessed by the Corporation in accordance with norms that may be prescribed by the State Government." (iii) For clause (f) of Section 136, the following shall be substituted, namely :- "(f) buildings and lands owned by widows or minors or persons with disability as defined under the Persons with Disabilities (Equal Opportunities, Protection of Rights and Full Participation) Act, 1995 (1 of 1996), to the extent as may be prescribed." (iv) For clause (h) of Section 136, the following shall be substituted, namely :- "(h) buildings and lands owned by blind persons and abandoned women, to the extent as may be prescribed." (v) Clause (j) of Section 136, of the Principal Act shall be omitted.
Chhattisgarh Municipal Corporation (Amendment) Act, 2012_Section 14--> State(s): Chhattisgarh For Section 137 of the Principal Act, the following shall be substituted, namely :- "137. Discount on Property Tax - (1) Notwithstanding anything contained in sections 135 and 136 of this Act, the Corporation shall have power to grant such discount on Property Tax as it may deem fit, and the State Government may prescribe, taking into consideration the financial condition of a Corporation, a ceiling on the maximum discount that may be granted by such Corporation."
Chhattisgarh Municipal Corporation (Amendment) Act, 2012_Section 15--> State(s): Chhattisgarh (i) In sub-section (1) of Section 138 of the Principal Act, for the words "on the basis of per square foot of the carpet area" the words "on the basis of per square meter of the built-up-area" shall be substituted. (ii) After sub-section (1) of Section 138, the following shall be inserted, namely :- "(1-a) The draft resolution mentioned in sub-section (1) shall be prepared and submitted by the Commissioner for the financial year next on or before 31st December of each financial year, and in case the Corporation fails to adopt the resolution by the last day of February of that financial year, the resolution shall be approved by the Mayor and shall be deemed to be the resolution finally adopted by the Corporation : Provided that if the Mayor does not approve the draft resolution prepared by the Commissioner by 31st March of a financial year, then the draft resolution as prepared by the Commissioner shall be deemed to be the resolution finally adopted by the Corporation." (iii) After sub-section (2) of Section 138, the following shall be inserted, namely :- "(2-a) If the self-assessment statement is not submitted by a person liable to submit it before 31st March, a penalty of one thousand rupees shall be imposed for the lapse." (iv) For sub-section (3) of Section 138, the following shall be substituted, namely :- "(3) The variation upto ten percent on lower side in the assessment made under sub-section (2) shall be ignored for the purpose of penalty, provided the assessee pays the amount of short-payment within two weeks of the assessment order with surcharge at the rate of two percent for every month between the date when the tax was due and the date of deposit of the amount of variation, and in cases where the variation is more than ten percent, the owner of the land and/or building, as the case may be shall be liable to pay penalty equal to five times the difference of self-assessment made by him and the assessment made by the Corporation, apart from surcharge at the rate of two percent for every month between the date when the tax was due and the date of deposit of the amount of variation." (v) For sub-section (4) of Section 138, the following shall be substituted, namely :- "(4) An appeal against the order passed under sub-section (3) shall lie to the Mayor-in-Council: Provided that no appeal under this sub-section shall be admitted unless accompanied by proof of payment under protest of the amount demanded in the order under sub-section (3)."
Chhattisgarh Municipal Corporation (Amendment) Act, 2012_Section 16--> State(s): Chhattisgarh In sub-section (3) of Section 142 of the Principal Act, for the words "not exceeding one hundred rupees" the words "according to Schedule II" shall be substituted.
Chhattisgarh Municipal Corporation (Amendment) Act, 2012_Section 17--> State(s): Chhattisgarh In sub-section (2) of section 165 of the Principal Act, for the words "may extend to one hundred rupees" the words "shall be according to Schedule II" shall be substituted.
Chhattisgarh Municipal Corporation (Amendment) Act, 2012_Section 18--> State(s): Chhattisgarh In Section 166 of the Principal Act, for the words "may extend to one hundred rupees" the words "shall be according to Schedule II" shall be substituted.
Chhattisgarh Municipal Corporation (Amendment) Act, 2012_Section 19--> State(s): Chhattisgarh In sub-section (2) of Section 199 of the Principal Act, for the words "fifty rupees" and "five rupees" the words "five hundred rupees" and "fifty rupees" shall be substituted respectively.
Chhattisgarh Municipal Corporation (Amendment) Act, 2012_Section 20--> State(s): Chhattisgarh In Section 200 of the Principal Act, for the words "may extend to twenty rupees the words "shall be according to Schedule-II" shall be substituted.
Chhattisgarh Municipal Corporation (Amendment) Act, 2012_Section 21--> State(s): Chhattisgarh In Section 201 of the Principal Act, for the words "may extend to fifty rupees" the words "shall be according to Schedule II" shall be substituted.
Chhattisgarh Municipal Corporation (Amendment) Act, 2012_Section 22--> State(s): Chhattisgarh In sub-section (2) of Section 236 of the Principal Act, for the words "not exceeding fifty rupees" the words "shall be according to Schedule II" shall be substituted.
Chhattisgarh Municipal Corporation (Amendment) Act, 2012_Section 23--> State(s): Chhattisgarh In sub-section (2) of Section 252 of the Principal Act, for the words "two hundred rupees" and "fifty rupees" the words "two thousand rupees" and "two hundred rupees" shall be substituted respectively.
Chhattisgarh Municipal Corporation (Amendment) Act, 2012_Section 24--> State(s): Chhattisgarh In sub-section (5) of Section 257 of the Principal Act, for the words "may extend to fifty rupees" the words "shall be according to Schedule II" shall be substituted.
Chhattisgarh Municipal Corporation (Amendment) Act, 2012_Section 25--> State(s): Chhattisgarh In sub-section (4) of Section 258 of the Principal Act, for the words "may extend to ten rupees" the words "shall be according to Schedule II" shall be substituted.
Chhattisgarh Municipal Corporation (Amendment) Act, 2012_Section 26--> State(s): Chhattisgarh In clause (c) of Section 272 of the Principal Act, for the words "may extend to fifty rupees" the words "shall be according to Schedule 11" shall be substituted.
Chhattisgarh Municipal Corporation (Amendment) Act, 2012_Section 27--> State(s): Chhattisgarh After sub-section (4) of Section 294 of the Principal Act, the following shall be inserted, namely :- "(5) Within the limits prescribed for them, the powers of the Commissioner under this Section may be exercised by Registered Architect/Structural Engineer/Engineer registered with the Corporation for this purpose."
Chhattisgarh Municipal Corporation (Amendment) Act, 2012_Section 28--> State(s): Chhattisgarh In Section 297 of the Principal Act, after the word "Commissioner" wherever it occurs, the words and comma "or, as the case may be, a Registered Architect/Structural Engineer/Engineer to the extent he has been authorized," shall be inserted.
Chhattisgarh Municipal Corporation (Amendment) Act, 2012_Section 29--> State(s): Chhattisgarh In Section 299 of the Principal Act, after the word "Commissioner" wherever it occurs, the words and comma "or, as the case may be, a Registered Architect/Structural Engineer/Engineer to the extent he has been authorized," shall be inserted.
Chhattisgarh Municipal Corporation (Amendment) Act, 2012_Section 30--> State(s): Chhattisgarh After proviso to Section 299-A of the Principal Act, the following proviso shall be inserted, namely :- "Provided further that in such cases where the permission was granted by a Registered Architect/Structural Engineer/Engineer, the power to cancel or to revise the permission under this Section shall lie with the Commissioner.’'
Chhattisgarh Municipal Corporation (Amendment) Act, 2012_Section 31--> State(s): Chhattisgarh In sub-section (2) of Section 302 of the Principal Act, for the words "one thousand rupees'" and "fifty rupees" the words "five thousand rupees" and "two hundred rupees" shall be substituted respectively.
Chhattisgarh Municipal Corporation (Amendment) Act, 2012_Section 32--> State(s): Chhattisgarh For Section 308-A of the Principal Act, the following shall be substituted, namely :- "308-A. Compounding of offences of construction of buildings without permission - (1) Notwithstanding anything contained in this Act or any other Act, for the time being in force or any rules or bye-laws made thereunder, the Commissioner may compound the offence of constructing buildings without permission or contrary to the permission granted if- (a) such construction does not affect the regular building line; (b) the unauthorized construction made in the marginal open spaces or in excess of the prescribed floor area ratio does not exceed ten percent of the prescribed floor area ratio ; (c) such construction does not come within the area notified by the State Government as a hill station or as a place of tourist importance or as sensitive from the point of ecology; (d) such construction does not come within the area specified for parking of vehicles ; (e) such construction does not come within the boundary of roads or within the area affecting alignment of public roads; (f) such construction does not come within the area specified for Tank (talab); (g) such construction does not come within thirty metres or such further distance from the river bank as may be specified in the master plan area; (h) such construction does not come within the area of any mullah and water stream : Provided that in compounding the cases, fees shall be charged, as under in respect of the area of unauthorized construction on the basis of the current rate of sale of land determined by the Collector of Stamps for the area concerned:- (a) if the construction relates to a plot of one hundred square metre, ten percent of the rate of sale in respect of residential buildings and fifteen percent of the rate of sale in respect of non-residential house/buildings; (b) if the construction relates to a plot exceeding one hundred square metre, but does not exceed two hundred square metre, twenty percent of the rate of sale in aspect of residential buildings and thirty percent of the rate of sale in respect of non-residential buildings: (c) if the construction relates to a plot exceeding two hundred square metre but does not exceed three hundred fifty square metre, thirty percent of the rate of sale in respect of residential buildings and forty five percent of rate of sale in respect of non-residential buildings' (d) if the construction relates to a plot exceeding three hundred fifty square metre, fifty percent of the rate of sale, in respect of residential building and seventy-five percent of the rate of sale, in respect of non-residential buildings : Provided also that nothing contained in this section shall apply to any person who does not have any right over the building or the land on which such construction has been made. (2) The compounding free under sub-section (1) shall be charged on the unauthorized construction and not on the entire building."
Chhattisgarh Municipal Corporation (Amendment) Act, 2012_Section 33--> State(s): Chhattisgarh In sub-section (4) of Section 332 of the Principal Act, for the words "may extend to fifty rupees" and "may extend to five rupees" the words "shall be according to Schedule-TI" and "shall be according to Schedule II" shall be substituted respectively.
Chhattisgarh Municipal Corporation (Amendment) Act, 2012_Section 34--> State(s): Chhattisgarh In Section 334 of the Principal Act, for the words "may extend to ten rupees" the words "shall be according to Schedule-II" shall be substituted.
Chhattisgarh Municipal Corporation (Amendment) Act, 2012_Section 35--> State(s): Chhattisgarh In sub-section (1) of Section 335 of the Principal Act, for the words "may extend to twenty rupees" the words "shall be according to Schedule II" shall be substituted.
Chhattisgarh Municipal Corporation (Amendment) Act, 2012_Section 36--> State(s): Chhattisgarh (i) In sub-section (1) of Section 336 of the Principal Act, for the words "may extend to fifty rupees" the words "shall be according to Schedule II" shall be substituted. (ii) In sub-section (2) of Section 336, for the words "may extend to one hundred rupees" the words "shall be according to Schedule II" shall be substituted.
Chhattisgarh Municipal Corporation (Amendment) Act, 2012_Section 37--> State(s): Chhattisgarh In sub-section (1) of Section 340 of the Principal Act, for the words "may extend to twenty rupees" the words "shall be according to Schedule II" shall be substituted.
Chhattisgarh Municipal Corporation (Amendment) Act, 2012_Section 38--> State(s): Chhattisgarh In Section 341 of the Principal Act, for the words "may extend to five rupees" the words "shall be according to Schedule II" shall be substituted.
Chhattisgarh Municipal Corporation (Amendment) Act, 2012_Section 39--> State(s): Chhattisgarh In sub-section (3) of Section 343 of the Principal Act, for the words "fifty rupees" and "five rupees" the words "five hundred rupees" and "fifty rupees" shall be substituted respectively.
Chhattisgarh Municipal Corporation (Amendment) Act, 2012_Section 40--> State(s): Chhattisgarh In Section 344 of the Principal Act, for the words "may extend to twenty rupees" the words "shall be according to Schedule II" shall be substituted.
Chhattisgarh Municipal Corporation (Amendment) Act, 2012_Section 41--> State(s): Chhattisgarh In Section 345 of the Principal Act, for the words "may extend to fifty rupees" the words "shall be according to Schedule II" shall be substituted.
Chhattisgarh Municipal Corporation (Amendment) Act, 2012_Section 42--> State(s): Chhattisgarh In Section 346-A of the Principal Act, for the words "may extend to twenty five rupees" the words "shall be according to Schedule II" shall be substituted.
Chhattisgarh Municipal Corporation (Amendment) Act, 2012_Section 43--> State(s): Chhattisgarh In clause (b) of Section 356 of the Principal Act, for the words "may extend to twenty rupees" the words "shall be according to Schedule II" shall be substituted.
Chhattisgarh Municipal Corporation (Amendment) Act, 2012_Section 44--> State(s): Chhattisgarh In Section 357 of the Principal Act, for the words "may extend to twenty rupees" the words "shall be according to Schedule II" shall be substituted.
Chhattisgarh Municipal Corporation (Amendment) Act, 2012_Section 45--> State(s): Chhattisgarh In Section 358 of the Principal Act, for the words "may extend to fifty rupees" the words "shall be according to Schedule II" shall be substituted.
Chhattisgarh Municipal Corporation (Amendment) Act, 2012_Section 46--> State(s): Chhattisgarh (i) In sub-section (1) of Section 360 of the Principal Act, for the words "not exceeding of fifty rupees" the words "which shall be according to Schedule II" shall be substituted. (ii) In sub-section (3) of Section 360, for the words "may extend to one hundred rupees" the words "shall be according to Schedule II" shall be substituted. (iii) In sub-section (5) of Section 360, for the words "may extend to one hundred rupees" the words "shall be according to Schedule II" shall be substituted.
Chhattisgarh Municipal Corporation (Amendment) Act, 2012_Section 47--> State(s): Chhattisgarh In Section 361 of the Principal Act, for the words "not exceeding one hundred rupees" the words "which shall be according to Schedule-II" shall be substituted.
Chhattisgarh Municipal Corporation (Amendment) Act, 2012_Section 48--> State(s): Chhattisgarh In sub-section (2) of Section 362 of the Principal Act, for the words "five hundred rupees" and "fifty rupees" the words "five thousand rupees" and "five hundred rupees" shall be substituted respectively.
Chhattisgarh Municipal Corporation (Amendment) Act, 2012_Section 49--> State(s): Chhattisgarh In Section 363 of the Principal Act, for the words "not exceeding twenty-five rupees" the words "which shall be according to Schedule II" shall be substituted.
Chhattisgarh Municipal Corporation (Amendment) Act, 2012_Section 50--> State(s): Chhattisgarh In Section 399 of the Principal Act, for the words "may extend to fifty rupees" the words "shall be according to Schedule II" shall be substituted.
Chhattisgarh Municipal Corporation (Amendment) Act, 2012_Section 51--> State(s): Chhattisgarh (i) In clause (a) of sub-section 428 of the Principal Act, for the words "five hundred rupees" and "ten rupees" the words "five thousand rupees" and "one hundred rupees" shall be substituted respectively. (ii) In clause (b) of sub-section (1) of Section 428 for the words "may extend to ten rupees" the words "shall be according to Schedule II" shall be substituted.
Chhattisgarh Municipal Corporation (Amendment) Act, 2012_Section 52--> State(s): Chhattisgarh After sub-section (2) of Section 433 of the Principal Act, the following shall be inserted, namely :- "(3) All rules made under this Act shall be laid on the table of the Legislative Assembly as soon as possible while it is in Session, but not later than the last scheduled day of the Session next, following the date of notification."
Chhattisgarh Municipal Corporation (Amendment) Act, 2012_Section 53--> State(s): Chhattisgarh For the existing table of sub-section (2) of Section 434 of the Principal Act, the following shall be substituted, namely :- "TABLE Section, sub-section or clause Brief reference to subject matter Maximum fine which may be imposed Daily fine which may be imposed when the offence is a continuing one (1) (2) (3) (4) Section 203 Section 205 sub-section (1) New building not be erected without drains. Owner of land to allow other to carry drains through the land. Five thousand rupees Five hundred rupees Two hundred rupees Fifty rupees Section 206 Owner of drain to allow use thereof or joint ownership therein to others. Five hundred rupees Fifty rupees Section 208 Resistance to order of the Commissioner regarding use of joint ownership of a drain. Five hundred rupees One hundred rupees Section 209 Resistance to Commissioner draining premises in combination. Five hundred rupees One hundred rupees Section 210 Resistance to the Commissioner constructing drains of failure to maintain and keep in repair portion of a drain vesting in an owner. Five hundred rupees Fifty rupees Section 211 Resistance to the Commissioner affixing shafts or pipes for ventilation of drains. Five hundred rupees One hundred rupees Section 246 Establishment of factory etc. without permission of the Commissioner Five hundred rupees Five hundred rupees Section 248 Storing dangerous or offensive articles or carrying on dangerous or offensive trades. Five thousand rupees Five hundred rupees Section 254 sub-section (1) Keeping open a private market without permission Two thousand five hundred rupees. Two hundred fifty rupees. Section 254 sub-section (2) Establishment, removal, opening re-establishment or enlarging of private market without permission. Five thousand rupees Five hundred rupees. Section 255 Selling animals, meat etc. outside market without a licence. One thousand rupees Five hundred rupees. Section 257 sub-section (3) Slaughter of animals without permission outside municipal slaughter house. Five thousand rupees -- Section 259 Sale of diseased or unwholesome animals or articles intended for human food. One thousand rupees for a first offence and five thousand rupees for any subsequent offence. Section 260 Keeping adulterants in place where butter, ghee, etc. are manufactured. One thousand rupees Section 261 Sale, etc. of notified article which is not of prescribed standard of purity. One thousand rupees for a first offence and five thousand rupees for any subsequent offence. Section 262 Sale, etc. of substitutes One thousand rupees for a first offence and five thousand rupees for any subsequent offence. Section 267 sub-section (3) Removing, interfering or tampering with animal, food, drink, drug etc. seized and left in custody. One thousand rupees Section 272 Failure to give information of existence Five thousand rupees - Section 289 sub-section (1), clauses (a), (b) and (d) Prohibition of burials etc. without permission. Five thousand rupees Section 289 sub-section (1) clause (c) Burial or burning of any corpse at any other place which is not a burial or burning ground. Five thousand rupees Section 291 Erection or re-erection of building in contravention of a town planning scheme. Five thousand rupees Five hundred rupees Section 293 Prohibition of erection or re-erection of buildings without permission of the Commissioner. Five thousand rupees Five hundred rupees Section 301 sub-section (1) Notice to be given to the Commissioner on completion of building. Five hundred rupees Section 301 sub-section (4) Prohibition of occupation of new or re-erected building without permission of the Commissioner. Five thousand rupees One hundred rupees Section 309 sub-section (3) Entering into or remaining in a building which has been declared unfit for human habitation. Five thousand rupees One hundred rupees Section 310 sub-section (1) Requisition to remove or repair building in ruinous or dangerous state. Five hundred rupees Fifty rupees Section 310 sub-section (3) Entering into or remaining in ruinous or dangerous building from which occupants have been removed. Two thousand rupees One hundred rupees Section 318 sub-section (1) Prohibition of projections upon streets etc. Two thousand rupees One hundred rupees Section 318 sub-section (2) Requisition to remove the same. Two thousand rupees One hundred rupees Section 324 Requisition to alter ground floor doors, etc. opening on roads, or streets etc. One thousand rupees One hundred rupees Section 325 Requisition to remove projections upon streets etc. Two thousand rupees Five hundred rupees Section 328 sub-section (1) Laying out of private streets otherwise than in accordance with the permission of the Commissioner. Five thousand rupees Five hundred rupees .
Chhattisgarh Municipal Corporation (Amendment) Act, 2012_Section 54--> State(s): Chhattisgarh In Section 435 of the Principal Act, for the words "may extend to one thousand rupees" the words "shall be according to Schedule-II" shall be substituted.
Chhattisgarh Municipal Corporation (Amendment) Act, 2012_Section 55--> State(s): Chhattisgarh In Section 437 of the Principal Act, for the words "may extend to one thousand rupees" the words "shall be according to Schedule-II" shall be substituted.
Chhattisgarh Municipal Corporation (Amendment) Act, 2012_Section 56--> State(s): Chhattisgarh In Section 438 of the Principal Act, for the words "or with fine or with both" the words "or with fine which may extend to one thousand rupees or with both." shall be substituted.
Chhattisgarh Municipal Corporation (Amendment) Act, 2012_Section 57--> State(s): Chhattisgarh In sub-section (1) of Section 439 of the Principal, Act, for the words "or with fine, or with both" the words "or with fine which may extend to one thousand rupees or with both." shall be substituted.
Chhattisgarh Municipal Corporation (Amendment) Act, 2012_Section 58--> State(s): Chhattisgarh In Section 440 of the Principal Act, for the words "fifty rupees" and "twenty rupees" the words "one thousand rupees" and "two hundred rupees" shall be substituted respectively.
Chhattisgarh Municipal Corporation (Amendment) Act, 2012_Section 59--> State(s): Chhattisgarh The Schedule after Section 443 of the Principal Act shall be re-numbered as "Schedule-I".
Chhattisgarh Municipal Corporation (Amendment) Act, 2012_Section 60--> State(s): Chhattisgarh After Schedule I of the Principal Act, the following shall be inserted, namely :- "Second Schedule Section, sub-section or clause Brief reference to subject matter Maximum fine which may be imposed (1) (2) (3) Section 142 subsection (3) Willful delay or obstruction in assessment work. One thousand rupees Section 165 subsection (2) Omission or furnishing of wrong information regarding tax liability Five thousand rupees Section 166 Furnishing wrong information regarding owner. Five thousand rupees Section 200 Discharging sewage etc. upon street or public place. Five hundred rupees Section 201 Making or altering drains without authority. Five hundred rupees Section 236 subsection (2) Taking connection with main cable, pipe, drain etc. without permission. Five hundred rupees Section 257 subsection (5) Slaughter of animal for sale in unauthorized place. Two thousand rupees Section 258 subsection (4) Inaction in case of death of animal in one’s charge. One hundred rupees Section 272 clause (c) Failure to give information regarding dangerous disease. Five hundred rupees Section 334 Destruction of direction posts, lamp post etc. One thousand rupees Section 335 subsection (1) Sticking of Bills without permission Two hundred rupees Section 336 subsection (1) Indecent or obscene pictures or printed or written matter. One thousand rupees Section 336 subsection (2) Delivering of Indecent or obscene pictures or printed written matter for exhibition. One thousand rupees Section 340 subsection (1) Picketing animals without permission Two hundred rupees Section 341 Driving vehicles without proper light Fifty rupees Section 344 Discharging fire-arms One thousand rupees Section 345 Quarrying, blasting, cutting timber or building. Five hundred rupees Section 346-A Spitting in any place other than drain or receptacle. Two hundred fifty rupees Section 356 clause (b) Allowing dogs to be at large without muzzle. Two hundred rupees Section 357 Failure to control elephants Two hundred rupees Section 358 Letting loose horse or other animals Five hundred rupees Section 360 subsection (1) Soliciting alms Five hundred rupees Section 360 subsection (3) Soliciting alms One thousand rupees Section 360 subsection (5) Soliciting alms One thousand rupees Section 361 Importing Baggar One thousand rupees Section 363 Illegal operation of Brothels Five hundred rupees Section 399 Occupier opposes execution of the Act. Five hundred rupees Section 428 subsection (1) clause (b) Penalties for breach of Bye-laws One hundred rupees Section 435 Punishment for certain offences One thousand rupees Section 437 Penalty for obstruction in exercise of powers. Five thousand rupees 
