Chhattisgarh Co-operative Societies (Amendment) Adhiniyam, 2001_Section Preamble--> State(s): Chhattisgarh An Act further to amend the Chhattisgarh Co-operative Societies Act, 1960. Be it enacted by the Chhattisgarh Legislature in the Fifty-second Year of the Republic of India as follows :-
Chhattisgarh Co-operative Societies (Amendment) Adhiniyam, 2001_Section 1--> State(s): Chhattisgarh (i) This Act may be called the Chhattisgarh Co-operative Societies (Amendment) Adhiniyam, 2001 (No. 11 of 2001).1 (ii) It shall come into force on such date as the State Government may by notification, appoint. Published in Chhattisgarh Rajpatra (Asadhram) dated 28-8-2001.
Chhattisgarh Co-operative Societies (Amendment) Adhiniyam, 2001_Section 2--> State(s): Chhattisgarh After Section 16-B of the Chhattisgarh Co-operative Societies Act, 1960 (Which is hereinafter referred as a principal Act), the following section shall be inserted, namely :- "16-C. Government’s power to make scheme of reorganisation in the public interest:- (1) Notwithstanding anything contained in this Act or the Rules made there under, if the State Government, on receipt of a report from the Registrar or otherwise, is satisfied that in the public interest it is necessary to reorganise any society or societies for the purpose of securing proper implementation of development programmes. The State Government, as it may deem necessary, may make such scheme of reorganisation and issue orders to implement above scheme. (2) There shall be the provisions in scheme of reorganisation regarding :- (a) Method of reorganisation; (b) Procedure for reorganisation; (c) To the membership, registration, management, assets and liabilities, powers, rights, interests, duties, staff and conditions of employment of such society or societies which are made after reorganisation; (d) Such other consequential, incidental and supplementary provisions as may be necessary; (e) Any other subject as may be deemed necessary by the State Government.
Chhattisgarh Co-operative Societies (Amendment) Adhiniyam, 2001_Section 3--> State(s): Chhattisgarh The State Government may modify or cancel any reorganisation scheme made or issued any orders under sub-section (1).
Chhattisgarh Co-operative Societies (Amendment) Adhiniyam, 2001_Section 4--> State(s): Chhattisgarh The provisions regarding every reorganisation scheme and the orders issued by the State Government shall be binding upon the interested parties.
Chhattisgarh Co-operative Societies (Amendment) Adhiniyam, 2001_Section 5--> State(s): Chhattisgarh Every scheme of such reorganisation shall be published in the Official Gazette for general information. 
