Motoryan Karadhan (Sanshodhan) Adhiniyam, 2001_Section Preamble--> State(s): Chhattisgarh An Act further to amend Chhattisgarh Motoryan Karadhan Adhiniyam, 1991 . Be it enacted by the Chhattisgarh Legislature in the Fifty-second Year of the Republic of India as follows :-
Motoryan Karadhan (Sanshodhan) Adhiniyam, 2001_Section 1--> State(s): Chhattisgarh This Act may be called the Chhattisgarh Motoryan Karadhan (Sanshodhan) Adhiniyam, 2001.1 Received the assent of the Governor on the 14th September, 2001
Motoryan Karadhan (Sanshodhan) Adhiniyam, 2001_Section 2--> State(s): Chhattisgarh For the first proviso of sub-section (1) of section 3 of the Chhattisgarh Motoryan Karadhan Adhiniyam, 1991 (No. 25 of 1991) (hereinafter referred to as the Principal Act), the following proviso shall be substituted, namely :- "Provided that the life time tax shall be levied at the rates specified in the Second Schedule in respect of motor vehicles specified therein."
Motoryan Karadhan (Sanshodhan) Adhiniyam, 2001_Section 3--> State(s): Chhattisgarh In sub section (2) of section 14 of the Principal Act, for the words ‘first proviso of sub section (1) of section 3’, the words "Second Schedule" shall be substituted.
Motoryan Karadhan (Sanshodhan) Adhiniyam, 2001_Section 4--> State(s): Chhattisgarh (1) In the First Schedule of Principal Act, for sub-clause (i) (a) and (b) of clause (1), sub-clause (i) of clause (2) sub-clause (ii) (a) and (b) of clause (3), sub-clause (ii) of clause (4), of sub item (d) of item IV the following sub item shall be substituted, namely :- "(d) vehicles permitted to carry more than six passengers plying as stage carriage on routes other than city routes :- (1) In respect of vehicles permitted to ply as air-conditioned or deluxe or express service for every passenger which the vehicle is permitted to carry and where the total distance permitted to be covered by the service in a day :- (i) does not exceed 100 kms. (a) for air-conditioned/deluxe service. Rs. 250/- per seat per month. (b) for express service. Rs. 200/- per seat per month. (2) In respect of vehicles permitted to ply as ordinary service for every passenger which the vehicle is permitted to carry and where the total distance permitted to be covered by a vehicle in a day- (i) does not exceed 100 kms. Rs. 160/- per seat per month. (3) in respect of vehicles of other State permitted to play as air- conditioned/deluxe or express service for every passenger which the vehicle is permitted to carry and where the permit is countersigned. (ii) without a reciprocal agreement:- (a) for air-conditioned/ deluxe service. Rs. 40/- per seat per month plus Rs. 20/- for each 10 kms. or part thereof per seat per month. (b) for express service. Rs. 40/-per seat per month plus Rs. 15/-for each 10 kms. or part thereof per seat per month. (4) In respect of vehicle of other State permitted to ply as ordinary service for every passenger which the vehicle is permitted to carry and where the permit is countersigned. (ii) without a reciprocal agreement- Rs. 40/- per seat per month plus Rs. 10/- for each 10 kms. or part thereof per seat per month." (2) For sub-item (f) of item IV clause (1) and (6) the following clause shall be substituted, namely:- "(1) vehicle permitted to carry more than six passengers and plying as contract carriage covered by all India tourist permit issued by Chhattisgarh State under sub-section (9) of Section 88 of the Motor Vehicles Act, 1988 for each seat (other than the driver) which the vehicle is permitted to carry :- (a) Tourist vehicle other than Maxi cab- (i) having seating arrangements under sub-rule (10) of rule 128 of the Central Motor Vehicle Rules 1989, with :- (a) seating layout two and two Rs. 800/- per seat per month. (b) seating layout two and one Rs. 950/- per seat per month. (c) seating layout one and one Rs. 1250/- per seat per month. (ii) for air-conditioned tourist bus (with any permitted seating layout) Rs. 950/- per seat per month. (b) Tourist vehicle Maxi cab- Rs. 125/- per seat per month. (6) vehicle permitted to carry more than six passengers and plying as contract carriage on temporary permit granted under clause (a) of sub-section (1) of Section 87 of the Motor Vehicles Act, 1988 for each seat (other than the driver) which the vehicle is permitted to carry. 50 paise for ordinary bus and one rupees for deluxe/air conditioned bus per seat per 10 kms. or part thereof for the entire distance to be covered in accordance with the conditions of the permit, in addition to tax paid under clause (c), (d), (e) or (f) (2) as the case may be." (3) For sub-item (g) of item IV the following sub-item shall be substituted, namely:- "(g) Motor vehicles plying without permit/authorisation :- 1. Vehicle other than Tourist Vehicle or Deluxe bus- (a) Vehicle permitted to carry exceeding 3 but not exceeding 6 passengers (excluding driver). Rs. 125/- per seat per month in accordance with entire registered seating capacity. (b) Vehicle permitted to carry exceeding 6 but not exceeding 12 passengers (excluding driver). Rs. 250/- per seat per month in accordance with entire registered seating capacity. (c) Vehicle permitted to carry exceeding 12 but not exceeding 29 passengers (excluding driver). Rs. 600/- per seat per month in accordance with entire registered seating capacity. (d) Vehicle permitted to carry exceeding 29 passengers (excluding driver). Rs. 1000/- per seat per month in accordance with entire registered seating capacity. 2. Tourist Vehicle/Deluxe bus- (a) Tourist vehicle motor cab Rs. 150/- per seat per month (b) Tourist vehicle maxi cab Rs. 300/- per seat per month (c) Tourist vehicle/Deluxe bus other than motor cab and maxi cab having:- (i) seating layout two and two Rs. 1600/- per seat per month. (ii) seating layout two and one or air-conditioned bus of any layout Rs. 1900/- per seat per month. (iii) seating layout one and one Rs. 2500/- per seat per month. (4) After Explanation (9) of item IV, the following explanation shall be inserted, namely :- "Explanation (10).-For the purpose of sub-clause (a) of clause (1) of sub item (f), in item IV in column (1) the physical verification of seating layout in a tourist vehicle shall be done by the Taxation Authority under the provision of sub-rule (10) of Rule 128 of the Central Motor Vehicle Rules, 1989 and shall be entered in the certificate of registration and tax token and it shall be verified from time to time by the Taxation Authority or officers authorized by the State Government in this behalf under section 16 of Chhattisgarh Motoryan Karadhan Adhiniyam, 1991.".
Motoryan Karadhan (Sanshodhan) Adhiniyam, 2001_Section 5--> State(s): Chhattisgarh For the Second Schedule of the Principal Act the following Schedule shall be substituted, namely :- "Second Schedule (See first proviso to sub section (1) of Section 3) Description of Motor vehicles Rate of life time tax (1) (2) 1. Motorcycles with or without attachment of any unladen weight. 4% of the cost of vehicle. 2. Motor cars of any unladen weight- (a) Cost of which does not exceed rupees five lacs. 5% of the cost of vehicle. (b) Cost of which exceeds rupees five lacs. 6% of the cost of vehicle. 3. Invalid Carriage. Rs. 360/- 4. Auto-rickshaw (Public Service Vehicle) plying for hire and reward permitted to carry not more than six passengers. (a) Vehicle purchased after taking loans under various schemes and conditions as decided by the State Government by its notification, from time to time and owned by any person belonging to scheduled castes, scheduled tribes, other backward classes and minority community. 2% of the cost of vehicle. (b) Vehicle purchased and owned by the person other than the person mentioned in (a) above. 5% of the cost of vehicle. 5. Omnibus registered for private use having seating capacity exceeding 6 and up to 12 (excluding driver). 6% of the cost of vehicle. Explanation.-1. Cost of vehicle means cost including tax realized by the dealer. 2. For calculating the life time tax on the basis of the above class of vehicle, the owner of the vehicle shall be required to produce sale receipt issued by the dealer at the time of the registration of vehicle. 3. Auto-rickshaw three-wheeler includes vehicles popularly known as Tempo, Vikram etc.".
Motoryan Karadhan (Sanshodhan) Adhiniyam, 2001_Section 6--> State(s): Chhattisgarh The Chhattisgarh Motoryan Karadhan (Sanshodhan) Adhyadesh, 2001 (No. 3 of 2001) is, hereby repealed. 
