Goa Agricultural Produce Marketing (Development and Regulation) (Amendment) Act, 2017_Section Preamble--> State(s): Goa An Act further to amend the Goa Agricultural Produce Marketing (Development and Regulation) Act, 2007 (Goa Act 11 of 2007). Be it enacted by the Legislative Assembly of Goa in the Sixty-eighth Year of the Republic of India as follows:-
Goa Agricultural Produce Marketing (Development and Regulation) (Amendment) Act, 2017_Section 1--> State(s): Goa (1) This Act may be called the Goa Agricultural Produce Marketing (Development and Regulation) (Amendment) Act, 2017. (2) It shall come into force at once.
Goa Agricultural Produce Marketing (Development and Regulation) (Amendment) Act, 2017_Section 2--> State(s): Goa In section 12 of the Goa Agricultural Produce Marketing (Development and Regulation) Act, 2007 (Goa Act 11 of 2007) (hereinafter referred to as the "Principal Act"), for sub-section (1), the following sub-section shall be substituted, namely:- "(1) Subject to the provisions of sub-section (2), the Marketing Board shall consist of the following eighteen members, namely:- (a) Twelve agriculturist members to represent agriculturists, one from each taluka of the State of Goa, to be elected by the agriculturists only from the respective taluka; (b) two female agriculturists members, one each from the North Goa District and the South Goa District, to be elected by the agriculturists only in the manner prescribed; (c) one trader holding "A" or "B" class licence to be elected from amongst traders of all classes; (d) two members to be nominated by the Government, one being from the office of the Registrar of Co-operative Societies, Government of Goa, and other being from the Department of Agriculture, Government of Goa, to function during the term of the Marketing Board; (e) the Secretary of the Marketing Board, to function during the term of the Marketing Board.".
Goa Agricultural Produce Marketing (Development and Regulation) (Amendment) Act, 2017_Section 3--> State(s): Goa In section 13 of the principal Act, in sub-section (2), for the second proviso, the following proviso shall be substituted, namely:- "Provided further that person who is a member of the Marketing Board by virtue of he being a representative of traders shall hold office so long as he continues to hold "A" or "B" class licence.".
Goa Agricultural Produce Marketing (Development and Regulation) (Amendment) Act, 2017_Section 4--> State(s): Goa In section 20 of the principal Act, for the expression "clauses (a), (b), (d), (f) and (g)", the expression "clauses (a) and (b)" shall be substituted.
Goa Agricultural Produce Marketing (Development and Regulation) (Amendment) Act, 2017_Section 5--> State(s): Goa In section 42 of the principal Act, for the expression "The Marketing Board may employ a Secretary" the expression "The Marketing Board shall employ an official deputed by the Government from the Registrar of Co-operative Societies, not below the rank of Assistant Registrar of Co-operative Societies", shall be substituted.
Goa Agricultural Produce Marketing (Development and Regulation) (Amendment) Act, 2017_Section 6--> State(s): Goa In section 51 of the principal Act, in sub-section (4), after clause (iii), the following clause shall be inserted, namely:- "(iv) the applicant has not traded in notified agricultural produce during the period of licence.". Secretariat, Porvorim-Goa. Dated: 18-1-2018. (Sudhir Mahajan) Secretary to the Government of Goa, Law Department (Legal Affairs). 
