Goa Land Revenue Code (Amendment) Act, 2017_Section Preamble--> State(s): Goa An Act further to amend the Goa Land Revenue Code, 1968 (Act No. 9 of 1969). Be it enacted by the Legislative Assembly of Goa in the Sixty-eighth Year of the Republic of India as follows:-
Goa Land Revenue Code (Amendment) Act, 2017_Section 1--> State(s): Goa (1) This Act may be called the Goa Land Revenue Code (Amendment) Act, 2017. (2) It shall come into force on such date as the Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, appoint.
Goa Land Revenue Code (Amendment) Act, 2017_Section 2--> State(s): Goa In section 24 of the Goa Land Revenue Code, 1968 (Act No. 9 of 1969) (hereinafter referred to as the "principal Act"), for the word "Collector", wherever it occurs, the word "Government" shall be substituted.
Goa Land Revenue Code (Amendment) Act, 2017_Section 3--> State(s): Goa In section 37 of the principal Act, for the words "Central Government", wherever they occur, the words "Central Government or Government" shall be substituted.
Goa Land Revenue Code (Amendment) Act, 2017_Section 4--> State(s): Goa After section 37 of the principal Act, the following sections shall be inserted, namely:- "37A. Confirmation of title to Alvara land.-(1) Every person occupying the land under the provisions of the Decree No. 3602 dated 24-11-1917 shall make an application in the prescribed form to the Collector within a period of six months from the date of commencement of the Goa Land Revenue Code (Amendment) Act, 2017 along with all the documents to substantiate that all the conditions laid down in the said Decree No. 3602 dated 24-11-1917 have been complied with and that he has a definitive title under the said Decree to such land: Provided that the Government may direct the Collector to entertain the application made beyond the said period of six months if it is satisfied that the applicant could not make application within the said period for the reasons beyond his control. (2) The Collector shall after receipt of application under sub-section (1) verify all the documents submitted by the applicant and after conducting such inquiry as he deems fit, submit his report thereon to the Government inter-alia stating as to whether the applicant has definitive title to the land occupied by him. (3) The Government may, after considering the report submitted by the Collector under sub-section (2), either approve or reject his report or give such other direction to the Collector as it deems fit in the matter. In the event the Government finds that the applicant has definitive title to the land, it may direct the Collector to issue a certificate of confirmation of the definitive title to the applicant in the prescribed form. (4) A person, whose application is rejected under sub-section (3) or is occupying Government/Alvara land without the definitive title to such land under the said Decree No. 3602 dated 24-11-1917, he shall apply for regularization of such land, in the prescribed form along with the prescribed fee, within a period of thirty days from the date of such rejection or six months from the date of commencement of the Goa Land Revenue Code (Amendment) Act, 2017, as the case may be. (5) The Collector shall after receipt of application under sub-section (4) verify all the documents submitted by the applicant and after conducting such inquiry as he deems fit, submit his report thereon to the Government. (6) The Government may, after considering the report submitted by the Collector under sub-section (5), either direct the Collector to regularize such land as occupant Class-II on payment of amount as specified in sub-section (7) or reject the application or give such other direction to the Collector as it deems fit in the matter. (7) Notwithstanding anything contained in any law for the time being in force, no land referred in sub-section (4) shall be regularized unless an amount equivalent to the total value of the land calculated at rupees 05/- per square meter has been deposited with the Government. (8) Where any person fails to comply with the provisions of sub-section (1) or (4) or his application is rejected under sub-section (3) or (6), the Government/Alvara land shall revert back to the Government free from all encumbrances and the Government shall be free to deal with such land as it deems fit. 37B. Restriction on transfer of occupancy of Land.-(1) Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section (4) of section 24 and section 37A, no person having definitive title to land conferred under section 37A and/or classified as occupant Class - I under section 24 shall transfer the said land to any person without remitting to the Government ten percent of the prevailing market value of such land as on the date of such transfer or proceeds of such transfer, whichever is higher. (2) The transfer of occupancy of the land in contravention of provision contained in sub-section (1) shall be null and void.
Goa Land Revenue Code (Amendment) Act, 2017_Section 5--> State(s): Goa For section 38 of the principal Act, the following section shall be substituted, namely:- "38. Regularisation of encroachments.-Nothing contained in section 37 shall prevent the Government, if the person making the encroachment so makes request, to charge the said person a sum not exceeding five times the value of the land so encroached upon and to grant the land to the encroacher on such terms and conditions as the Government may impose subject to rules made in this behalf; and then to cause the said land to be entered in land records in the name of the such person as Occupant-Class II: Provided that no Land shall be granted as aforesaid, unless a public notice of intention so to do is given, and any objections or suggestions which may be received before granting the land as aforesaid are considered. The expenses incurred in giving such public notice shall be paid by the person making the encroachment; and on his failure to do so on demand within a reasonable time, shall be recovered from him as an arrear of land revenue.".
Goa Land Revenue Code (Amendment) Act, 2017_Section 6--> State(s): Goa In section 39 of the principal Act, in sub-section (1), for the expression "(except Alvara holder and person in occupation of Land before the appointed day)" shall be omitted.
Goa Land Revenue Code (Amendment) Act, 2017_Section 7--> State(s): Goa In section 40 of the principal Act, for the words "Central Government", wherever they occur, the words "Central Government or Government" shall be substituted. Secretariat, Porvorim-Goa. Dated: 19-1-2018. (Sudhir Mahajan) Secretary to the Government of Goa, Law Department (Legal Affairs). 
