Goa Civil Courts Act, 1965_Section Preamble--> State(s): Goa, Daman and Diu An Act to provide for the constitution and organisation of a District Court and subordinate Courts in the Union Territory of Goa, Daman and Diu. Be it enacted by the Legislative Assembly of Goa, Daman and Diu in the Sixteenth Year of the Republic of India as follows:-
Goa Civil Courts Act, 1965_Section 1--> State(s): Goa, Daman and Diu This Act may be called the Goa 1 [ ] Civil Courts Act, 1965. (2) It extends to the whole of the 2 [State of Goa]. (3) It shall come into force on such date as the 3 [Government] may, by notification in the Official Gazette, appoint. The words ", Daman and Diu" deleted by the amendment Act 22 of 2009. Substituted for the words "the Union Territory of Goa, Daman and Diu" by Amendment Goa Act 22 of 2009. Substituted for the word "Administrator" by Amendment Goa Act 22 of 2009.
Goa Civil Courts Act, 1965_Section 2--> State(s): Goa, Daman and Diu In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires: 1 [(a) "Government" means the Government of Goa;] 2 [(b) "High Court" means the High Court of Bombay at Panaji;] (c) "Official Gazette" means the Goa 3 [ ] Government Gazette; 4 [(d) "State" means the "State of Goa"] 5 [Provided that, on and from the commencement of the Daman and Diu Civil Courts (Amendment) Regulation, 2010, the provisions of clauses (a), (c) and (d), in relation to Daman and Diu, shall have effect as if for the words "Goa, Daman and Diu", the words "Daman and Diu" had been substituted.] Substituted by the amendment Act 22 of 2009. Substituted by the amendment Act 22 of 2009. The words ", Daman and Diu" deleted by the amendment Act 22 of 2009. Substituted by the amendment Act 22 of 2009. Inserted by Daman and Diu Civil Courts (Amendment) Regulation, 2010, w.e.f. 23-03-2010.
Goa Civil Courts Act, 1965_Section 3--> State(s): Goa, Daman and Diu There shall be a District Court for the 1 [each District of State of Goa], presided over by a Judge to be called the District Judge and appointed by the 2 [Government] but the 3 [Government] may from time to time by notification in the Official Gazette, alter the limits of the District or create new Districts for the purposes of this Act, in consultation with the High Court. Substituted for the words "whole of the Union Territory", by Amendment Goa Act 22 of 2009. Substituted for the word "Administrator" by Amendment Goa Act 22 of 2009. Substituted for the word "Administrator" by Amendment Goa Act 22 of 2009.
Goa Civil Courts Act, 1965_Section 4--> State(s): Goa, Daman and Diu The District Judge shall ordinarily hold the District Court 1 [at Panaji or Margao] but may, with the previous sanction of the High Court, hold it elsewhere within the 2 [State of Goa]. 3 [Provided that, on and from the commencement of the Daman and Diu Civil Courts (Amendment) Regulation, 2010, the provisions of this section shall have effect in relation to Daman and Diu as if for the word "Panjim", the words "Daman and Diu" had been substituted] Substituted for the words "at Panjim", by Amendment Goa Act 22 of 2009. Substituted for the words "Union Territory", by Amendment Goa Act 22 of 2009. Inserted by Daman and Diu Civil Courts (Amendment) Regulation, 2010, w.e.f. 23-03-2012.
Goa Civil Courts Act, 1965_Section 5--> State(s): Goa, Daman and Diu The District Court shall be the principal Court of original civil jurisdiction in the district, within the meaning of the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 or any other law for the time being in force.
Goa Civil Courts Act, 1965_Section 6--> State(s): Goa, Daman and Diu Save as otherwise expressly provided in this Act, the District Court shall be the Court of Appeal from all decrees and orders passed by the subordinate Courts from which an appeal lies under any law for the time being in force.
Goa Civil Courts Act, 1965_Section 7--> State(s): Goa, Daman and Diu (1) Subject to the provisions contained in the 1 [Part IV of the Goa, Daman and Diu Reorganisation Act, 1987 (Central Act 18 of 1987)] and the rules made thereunder, the District Judge shall have general control over all the Civil Courts subordinate to the District Court and their establishment and it shall be his duty to inspect, or to cause one of his assistants to inspect, the proceedings of all such Courts. Thereafter the District Judge or an Additional District Judge may give such direction with respect to matters not provided for by law as he may think necessary. 2 [Provided that, on and from the commencement of the Daman and Diu Civil Courts (Amendment) Regulation, 2010, the provisions of this sub-section, in relation to Daman and Diu, shall have effect as if for the words, "The District Judge shall have general control", the words "Subject to the control of the High Court, the District Judge shall have general control" had been substituted] (2) The District Judge shall also refer to the High Court all such matters as appear to him to require that a rule of that Court should be made thereon. Substituted for the expression "Goa, Daman and Diu (Judicial Commissioner's Court) Regulation, 1963", by Amendment Goa Act 22 of 2009. Inserted by Daman and Diu Civil Courts (Amendment) Regulation, 2010, w.e.f. 23-03-2010.
Goa Civil Courts Act, 1965_Section 8--> State(s): Goa, Daman and Diu (1) The District Judge shall obey all writs, orders or processes issued to him by the High Court and shall make such returns or reports thereto under his signature and the seal of the Court as the exigencies of the case require. (2) He shall further furnish such reports and returns and copies of proceedings as may be called for by the High Court or the 1 [Government]. Substituted for the word "Administrator" by Amendment Goa Act 22 of 2009.
Goa Civil Courts Act, 1965_Section 9--> State(s): Goa, Daman and Diu The 1 [Government] may appoint one or more Additional Judges to the District Court who shall be invested with co-extensive powers and a concurrent jurisdiction with the District Judge, except that an Additional District Judge shall not keep a file of civil suits or appeals and shall transact such civil business only as he may receive from the District Judge, or as may have been referred to him by order of the High Court. Substituted for the word "Administrator" by Amendment Goa Act 22 of 2009.
Goa Civil Courts Act, 1965_Section 10--> State(s): Goa, Daman and Diu 1 [...] Section 10 of the principal Act Omitted by the Amendment Goa Act 22 of 2009.
Goa Civil Courts Act, 1965_Section 11--> State(s): Goa, Daman and Diu 1 [...] Section 11 of the principal Act Omitted by the Amendment Goa Act 22 of 2009.
Goa Civil Courts Act, 1965_Section 12--> State(s): Goa, Daman and Diu 1 [...] Section 12 of the principal Act Omitted by the Amendment Goa Act 22 of 2009.
Goa Civil Courts Act, 1965_Section 13--> State(s): Goa, Daman and Diu 1 [...] Section 13 of the principal Act Omitted by the Amendment Goa Act 22 of 2009.
Goa Civil Courts Act, 1965_Section 14--> State(s): Goa, Daman and Diu 1 [...] Section 14 of the principal Act Omitted by the Amendment Goa Act 22 of 2009.
Goa Civil Courts Act, 1965_Section 14A--> State(s): Goa, Daman and Diu Nothing contained in sections 10, 11, 12, 13 and 14 shall, on and from the commencement of the Daman and Diu Civil Courts (Amendment) Regulation, 2010, apply to Daman and Diu. Inserted by Daman and Diu Civil Courts (Amendment) Regulation, 2010, w.e.f. 23-03-2010.
Goa Civil Courts Act, 1965_Section 15--> State(s): Goa, Daman and Diu There shall be so many Civil Courts subordinate to the District court as the 1 [Government] may, from time to time direct. Substituted for the word "Administrator" by Amendment Goa Act 22 of 2009.
Goa Civil Courts Act, 1965_Section 16--> State(s): Goa, Daman and Diu The Judges of such Subordinate Courts shall be appointed by the 1 [Government] and shall be called Civil Judges. Substituted for the word "Administrator" by Amendment Goa Act 22 of 2009.
Goa Civil Courts Act, 1965_Section 17--> State(s): Goa, Daman and Diu The 1 [Government], may by notification in the Official Gazette, fix, and by a like notification, from time to time, alter the local limits of the ordinary jurisdiction of the Civil Judges. Substituted for the word "Administrator" by Amendment Goa Act 22 of 2009.
Goa Civil Courts Act, 1965_Section 18--> State(s): Goa, Daman and Diu (1) The Civil Judges shall hold their Courts at such place or places as the 1 [Government] may, from time to time appoint within the local limits of their respective jurisdictions: Provided that for special reasons it shall be lawful for the 2 [Government] to order that a Civil Judge shall hold his Court at a place outside the local limits of his jurisdiction. (2) Wherever more than one such place is appointed, the District Judge shall, subject to the control of the High Court, fix the days on which the Civil Judge shall hold his court at each of such places, and the Civil Judge shall cause such days to be duly notified throughout the local limits of his jurisdiction. (3) The same person may be the Judge of more than one subordinate Court and may dispose of the Civil business of anyone of his Courts at the headquarters of any other of his Courts, and in such cases the District Judge shall, subject to the control of the High Court prescribe rules for regulating the time during which the Civil Judge shall sit in each Court. Substituted for the word "Administrator" by Amendment Goa Act 22 of 2009. Substituted for the word "Administrator" by Amendment Goa Act 22 of 2009.
Goa Civil Courts Act, 1965_Section 19--> State(s): Goa, Daman and Diu (1) For the purposes of assisting the Judge of any subordinate Court in the disposal of the Civil business on his file, the 1 [Government] may appoint to such Court one or more additional Civil Judges. An Additional Civil Judge shall dispose of such civil business within the limits of his pecuniary Jurisdiction as may, subject to the control of the District Judge, be referred to him by the Civil Judge of such Court. (2) For the purpose of this section the provisions of this Act applicable to Civil Judges shall be, applicable to additional Civil Judges. Substituted for the word "Administrator" by Amendment Goa Act 22 of 2009.
Goa Civil Courts Act, 1965_Section 20--> State(s): Goa, Daman and Diu (1) The Civil Judges shall be of two classes, namely Senior Civil Judges and Junior Civil Judges. 1 [Provided that, on and from the commencement of the Daman and Diu Civil Courts (Amendment) Regulation, 2010, the provisions of this sub-section, in relation to Daman and Diu, shall have effect as if for the words "Senior Civil Judges and Junior Civil Judges", the words and brackets "Civil Judges (Senior Division) and Civil Judges (Junior Division)" had been substituted.] (2) The jurisdiction of a Senior Civil Judge extends to all original suits and proceedings of a Civil nature. 2 [Provided that, on and from the commencement of the Daman and Diu Civil Courts (Amendment) Regulation, 2010, the provisions of this sub-section, in relation to Daman and Diu, shall have effect as if for the words "Senior Civil Judge", the words and brackets "Civil Judge (Senior Division)" had been substituted.] 3 (3) The jurisdiction of a Junior Civil Judge extends to all original suits and proceedings of a civil nature wherein the subject matter does not exceed in amount or value 4 [twenty Lakhs rupees]. 5 [Provided further that nothing contained in sub-section (3), on and from the commencement of the Daman and Diu Civil Courts (Amendment) Regulation, 2010, shall apply to Daman and Diu.] 6 [(4) On and from the commencement of the Daman and Diu Civil Courts (Amendment) Regulation, 2010, the jurisdiction of a Civil Judge (Junior Division), in relation to Daman and Diu, extends to all original suits and proceedings of a civil nature wherein the subject matter does not exceed in amount or value one lakh rupees.] Inserted by Daman and Diu Civil Courts (Amendment) Regulation, 2010, 23-03-2010. Inserted by Daman and Diu Civil Courts (Amendment) Regulation, 2010, 23-03-2010. This sub-section has been substituted by Amendment Act, 1987 (Act No. 6 of 1987). Substituted for the words "one Lakh rupees", by Amendment Goa Act 22 of 2009. Inserted by Daman and Diu Civil Courts (Amendment) Regulation, 2010, 23-03-2010. Inserted by Daman and Diu Civil Courts (Amendment) Regulation, 2010, 23-03-2010.
Goa Civil Courts Act, 1965_Section 20A--> State(s): Goa, Daman and Diu All appeals which are valued upto Rupees Twenty lakhs or below and pending before the High Court immediately before the commencement of the Goa Civil Courts (Amendment) Act, 2009, shall, on such commencement stand transferred to the concerned District Court and such District Court may proceed to deal with such appeals from the stage which was reached before such transfer or from any earlier stage or de-novo as such District Court may deem fit: Provided that this section will not apply to any appeals which are pending before the High Court and which are statutorily provided under the relevant Act before the High Court.".] Section inserted by the Amendment Goa Act 22 of 2009.
Goa Civil Courts Act, 1965_Section 21--> State(s): Goa, Daman and Diu (1) The local limits of the jurisdiction of every Civil Judge Senior or Junior, shall be such as may from time to time be fixed by the 1 [Government] in consultation with the High Court by notification in the Official Gazette. 2 [Provided that, on and from the commencement of the Daman and Diu Civil Courts (Amendment) Regulation, 2010, the provisions of this sub-section, in relation to Daman and Diu, shall have effect as if for the words "Senior or Junior", the words "Senior Division or Junior Division" had been substituted.] (2) A Senior Civil Judge in addition to his ordinary jurisdiction, shall have and exercise jurisdiction in respect of such suits and proceedings of a civil nature as may arise within the local jurisdiction of such Courts presided over by a Junior Civil Judge as may be specified by the "[Government] in consultation with the High Court by notification in the Official Gazette, and wherein the subject matter exceeds the pecuniary jurisdiction of the Junior Civil Judge as defined in the preceding section. [Provided that, on and from the commencement of the Daman and Diu Civil Courts (Amendment) Regulation, 2010, the provisions of this sub-section, in relation to Daman and Diu, shall have effect as if- (a) for the words "Senior Civil Judge", the words and brackets "Civil Judge (Senior Division)" had been substituted; (b) for the words "Junior Civil Judge", occurring at both the places, the words and brackets "Civil Judge (Junior Division)" had been substituted.] Substituted for the word "Administrator" by Amendment Goa Act 22 of 2009. Inserted by Daman and Diu Civil Courts (Amendment) Regulation, 2010, w.e.f. 23-03-2010.
Goa Civil Courts Act, 1965_Section 22--> State(s): Goa, Daman and Diu In all suits decided by a Civil Judge of which the amount or value of the subject matter exceeds 1 [twenty Lakhs] the appeal from his decision shall be direct to the High Court. 2 [Provided that, on and from the commencement of the Daman and Diu Civil Courts (Amendment) Regulation, 2010, the provisions of this section, in relation to Daman and Diu, shall have effect as if for the words "twenty-five thousand rupees", the words "one lakh rupees" had been substituted] Substituted for the words "one Lakh", by Amendment Goa Act 22 of 2009. Inserted by Daman and Diu Civil Courts (Amendment) Regulation, 2010, w.e.f. 23-03-2010.
Goa Civil Courts Act, 1965_Section 23--> State(s): Goa, Daman and Diu (1) The 1 [Government] may invest any Senior Civil Judge with power to hear appeals from such decrees and orders of a Junior Civil Judge as may be referred to him by the District Judge. 2 [Provided that, on and from the commencement of the Daman and Diu Civil Courts (Amendment) Regulation, 2010, the provisions of this sub-section, in relation to Daman and Diu, shall have effect as if for the words "Senior Civil Judge" and "Junior Civil Judge", the words and brackets "Civil Judge (Senior Division)" and "Civil Judge (Junior Division)" had respectively been substituted] (2) Decrees and orders so passed in appeal by Senior Civil Judge, shall have the same force as if passed by a District Judge. [Provided that, on and from the commencement of the Daman and Diu Civil Courts (Amendment) Regulation, 2010, the provisions of this sub-section, in relation to Daman and Diu, shall have effect as if for the words "Senior Civil Judge", the words and brackets "Civil Judge (Senior Division)" had been substituted.] (3) A Senior Civil Judge, on whom the power of hearing appeals has once been conferred under this section shall continue to have this power so long and so often as he may fill the office of Senior Civil Judge, without reference to the place in which he may be employed: [Provided that, on and from the commencement of the Daman and Diu Civil Courts (Amendment) Regulation, 2010, the provisions of this sub-section, in relation to Daman and Diu, shall have effect as if for the words "Senior Civil Judge", at both the places where they occur, the words and brackets "Civil Judge (Senior Division)" had been substituted.] Provided that the 19[Government] may by notification in the Official Gazette at any time withdraw such power. Substituted for the word "Administrator" by Amendment Goa Act 22 of 2009. Insertd by Daman and Diu Civil Courts (Amendment) Regulation, 2010, w.e.f. 23-03-2010.
Goa Civil Courts Act, 1965_Section 24--> State(s): Goa, Daman and Diu 1 [...] Section 24 of the principal Act omitted the by Amendment Goa Act 22 of 2009.
Goa Civil Courts Act, 1965_Section 25--> State(s): Goa, Daman and Diu (1) The 1 [Government] may by general or special order invest any Civil Judge within such local limits and subject to such pecuniary limitation as may be prescribed in such order, with all or any of the powers of a District Judge or a District Court as the case may be under any special law. Every order made by a Civil Judge by virtue of the powers conferred upon him under sub-section (1) shall be subject to appeal to the High Court or the District Court according as the amount or value of the subject matter exceeds or does not exceed ten thousand rupees. (3) Every order of the District Judge passed on appeal under sub-section (2) from the order of a Civil Judge shall be subject to an appeal to the High Court under the rules contained in the Code of Civil Procedure applicable to appeals from appellate decrees. 2 [Provided that, on and from the commencement of the Daman and Diu Civil Courts (Amendment) Regulation, 2010, the provisions of this sub-section, in relation to Daman and Diu, shall have effect as if for the words "ten thousand rupees", the words "one lakh rupees" had been substituted.] Substituted for the word "Administrator" by Amendment Goa Act 22 of 2009. Inserted by Daman and Diu Civil Courts (Amendment) Regulation, 2010, w.e.f. 23-03-2010.
Goa Civil Courts Act, 1965_Section 26--> State(s): Goa, Daman and Diu (1) No Court other than the 1 ["District Court"] shall receive or register any suit in which the Central Government or the 2 [Government of the Government of Goa] or any officer of Government in his official capacity, is a party: Provided that the 3 [Government] may by general or special order notified in the Official Gazette, direct that the provisions of this section shall not apply to any suit or class or category of suits of the nature referred to therein. 4 [Provided further that, on and from the commencement of the Daman and Diu Civil Courts (Amendment) Regulation, 2010, the provisions of this sub-section, in relation to Daman and Diu, shall have effect as if for the words "Senior Civil Judge", the words and brackets "Civil Judge (Senior Division)" had been substituted.] (2) Nothing in this section shall be deemed to apply to a suit against the administration of a Government Railway. Provisions has been amended twice i.e. by Amendment Act, 1987 (Act No. 6 of 1987), and again by Goa Act No. 5 of 2004. Substituted for the expression "Administrator of the Government of Goa, Daman and Diu", by Amendment Goa Act 22 of 2009. Substituted for the word "Administrator" by Amendment Goa Act 22 of 2009. Inserted by Daman and Diu Civil Courts (Amendment) Regulation, 2010, w.e.f. 23-03-2010.
Goa Civil Courts Act, 1965_Section 26A--> State(s): Goa, Daman and Diu All suits received or registered under section 26 and pending before any Court of a Senior Civil Judge immediately before the commencement of the Goa Civil Courts (Amendment) Act, 2004, shall, on such commencement, stand transferred to the District Court of the concerned district and such District Court may proceed to deal with such suit from the stage which was reached before such transfer or from any earlier stage or de novo, as such District Court may deem fit and no Court of any Senior Civil Judge shall entertain, try, dispose off or proceed to hear any matter where the Central Government or the Government of Goa or any officer of the Government in his official capacity, is a party to the proceedings.] Inserted by Goa Act No. 5 of 2004 published in the Official Gazette (Extraordinary No. 3), Series I No. 50 dated 16th March, 2004 and came into force at once.
Goa Civil Courts Act, 1965_Section 26B--> State(s): Goa, Daman and Diu Notwithstanding anything contained in section 6,- (a) an appeal shall lie to the High Court having jurisdiction over the State of Goa, from all decrees made by any Court of a Senior Civil Judge before the commencement of the Goa Civil Courts (Amendment) Act, 2004 (Act 5 of 2004), in any suit where the Central Government or the Government of Goa or any officer of the Government in his official capacity, is a party to the proceedings; (b) all appeals from any decree made by any Court of a Senior Civil Judge in any suit where the Central Government or the Government of Goa or any officer of the Government in his official capacity, is a party to the proceedings, pending before any District Court as on the date of commencement of the Goa Civil Courts (Amendment) Act, 2004 (Act 5 of 2004), shall stand transferred to the High Court having jurisdiction over the State of Goa.]. Inserted by Goa Act No. 16 of 2005 published in the Official Gazette (Extraordinary), Series I No. 28 dated 13th October, 2005 and came into force at once.
Goa Civil Courts Act, 1965_Section 27--> State(s): Goa, Daman and Diu (1) The District Judge shall use a circular seal, in 050.8 metres in diameter, which bear thereon the Ashoka Capital Motif with the following inscription in Hindi and English - 1 ["District Court of "] (2) Every additional District Judge 2 [...] shall use the seal of the District Judge. (3) Each Civil Judge shall use a circular seal one inch and a half in diameter, bearing the Ashoka Capital Motif with the following inscription in English and in Hindi - "Civil Judge of .. " 3 [Provided that, on and from the commencement of the Daman and Diu Civil Courts (Amendment) Regulation, 2010, the provisions of this sub-section, in relation to Daman and Diu, shall have effect as if for the words "District Judge and Assistant Judge", the words "District Judge" had been substituted.] Substituted for the expression "District Court of Goa, Daman and Diu", by Amendment Goa Act 22 of 2009. Omitted the words "and Assistant Judge" by Amendment Goa Act 22 of 2009. Inserted by Daman and Diu Civil Courts (Amendment) Regulation, 2010, w.e.f. 23-03-2010.
Goa Civil Courts Act, 1965_Section 28--> State(s): Goa, Daman and Diu (1) In the event of the District Judge being prevented from performing his duties by illness or other casualty, or of his absence from his district on leave, or of death, the Senior most Additional District Judge if any or in his absence 1 [...], the Senior most Civil Judge shall assume charge of the District Court without interruption to his ordinary jurisdiction, and while so in charge shall perform the duties of a District Judge with respect to the filing of suits and appeals, receiving pleadings, execution of processes, return of writs and the like and shall be designated Additional District Judge 2 [...] or Civil Judge as the case may be, in charge of the district and shall continue in such charge until the office of District Judge may be resumed or assumed by an officer duly appointed thereto. 3 ['Provided that, on and from the commencement of the Daman and Diu Civil Courts (Amendment) Regulation, 2010, the provisions of this sub-section, in relation to Daman and Diu, shall have effect as if- (a) for the words "the Senior-most Assistant Judge if any or the Senior-most Civil Judge", the words "Senior-most Civil Judge" had been substituted; (b) for the words "Assistant Judge or Civil Judge", the words "Civil Judge" had been substituted] (2) In the event of the death, suspension or temporary absence of any Civil Judge, the District Judge may empower the Judge of any other subordinate Court to perform the duties of the Judge of the vacated subordinate Court, either at the place of such Court or of his own Court; but in every such case the registers and records of the two Courts shall be kept distinct. Omitted the expression "the senior most Assistant Judge if any or" by Amendment Goa Act 22 of 2009. Omitted the words "Assistant Judge" by Amendment Goa Act 22 of 2009. Inserted by Daman and Diu Civil Courts (Amendment) Regulation, 2010, w.e.f. 23-03-2010.
Goa Civil Courts Act, 1965_Section 29--> State(s): Goa, Daman and Diu Any District Judge leaving the station and proceeding on duty to any place within his district may delegate to an Additional District Judge, if any, 1 [or in absence of Additional District Judge to a Senior Civil Judge] to a Civil Judge at the station, the power of performing such of the duties enumerated in the preceding section as may be emergent; and such officer shall be designated Additional District Judge, 2 [...] or Civil Judge, as the case may be, in charge of the station. 3 ['Provided that, on and from the commencement of the Daman and Diu Civil Courts (Amendment) Regulation, 2010, the provisions of this section, in relation to the Daman and Diu, shall have effect as if- (a) for the words "the Assistant Judge, or in the absence of an Assistant Judge to a Civil Judge", the words "to a Civil Judge" had been substituted; (b) for the words "Assistant or Civil Judge", the words "Civil Judge" had been substituted.] Substituted for the expression "or the Assistant Judge, or in the absence of an Assistant Judge", by Amendment Goa Act 22 of 2009. Omitted the word "Assistant" by Amendment Goa Act 22 of 2009. Inserted by Daman and Diu Civil Courts (Amendment) Regulation, 2010, w.e.f. 23-03-2010.
Goa Civil Courts Act, 1965_Section 30--> State(s): Goa, Daman and Diu (1) The duties and designations of the ministerial officers of the Civil Courts shall be regulated by such rules as the High Court may from time to time prescribe. (2) There may be appointed to any Civil Court under this Act a clerk of the Court, who in addition to such duties as may from time to time be prescribed by the High Court may receive and register plaints, and shall refer such as he may consider should be refused for the orders of the Judge of the Court, and may sign all processes, and authenticate copies of papers.
Goa Civil Courts Act, 1965_Section 31--> State(s): Goa, Daman and Diu The proceedings of each Civil Court shall be kept and recorded according to such rules as the High Court may from time to time prescribe. The High Court shall also lay down rules under which copies of papers may be granted.
Goa Civil Courts Act, 1965_Section 32--> State(s): Goa, Daman and Diu (1) The High Court may, from time to time make rules consistent with this Act and any other enactment for the time being in force: - (a) declaring what persons shall be permitted to act as petition-writers in the Courts subordinate to it; (b) regulating the issue of licences to such persons, the conduct of business by them, and the scale of fees to be charged by them; and (c) providing a penalty of fine not exceeding fifty rupees for the breach of any of the rules so made and determining the authority by which such breaches of the rules shall be investigated, the penalties imposed, and the procedure to be followed by such authority. (2) Every fine imposed under clause (c) of sub-section (1) shall be recoverable as if it were a fine imposed by a Magistrate in the exercise of his ordinary jurisdiction.
Goa Civil Courts Act, 1965_Section 33--> State(s): Goa, Daman and Diu The District and Subordinate Courts shall sit from day to day except on closed holidays notified by the High Court. 1 [...] 2 [Provided that, on and from the commencement of the Daman and Diu Civil Courts (Amendment) Regulation, 2010, the provisions of this section, in relation to Daman and Diu, shall have effect as if for the words, figures and brackets "notified by the High Court under section 21 of the Goa, Daman and Diu (Judicial Commissioner's Court) Regulation, 1963", the words "notified by the High Court" had been substituted] The words "under section 21 of the Goa, Daman and Diu (Judicial Commissioner's Court) Regulation, 1963" have been omitted by (Amendment) Act, 1989. Inserted by Daman and Diu Civil Courts (Amendment) Regulation, 2010, w.e.f. 23-03-2010.
Goa Civil Courts Act, 1965_Section 34--> State(s): Goa, Daman and Diu (1) As from the commencement of this Act, any law in force in the Union Territory making provisions for the constitution and organisation of Civil Courts, or any part of such law, shall stand repealed. (2) Notwithstanding anything contained in the foregoing provisions:- (a) the constitution and organisation of Courts under this Act shall not prejudicially affect the continued operation of any notice served, injunction issued, direction made or proceedings taken before the commencement of this Act by any court under the powers conferred upon it by any law for the time being in force; (b) every proceedings pending before a Court of Comarca immediately before the commencement of this Act shall, on such commencement, stand transferred to the corresponding court of Senior Civil Judge; 1 [Provided that, on and from the commencement of the Daman and Diu Civil Courts (Amendment) Regulation, 2010, the provisions of this clause, in relation to Daman and Diu, shall have effect as if for the words "Senior Civil Judge", the words and brackets "Civil Judge (Senior Division)" had been substituted] (c) every proceeding pending before any Court, of Julgado immediately before the commencement of this Act shall, on such commencement, stand transferred to the corresponding court of Junior Civil Judge; and 2 [Provided that, on and from the commencement of the Daman and Diu Civil Courts (Amendment) Regulation, 2010, the provisions of this clause, in relation to Daman and Diu, shall have effect as if for the words "Junior Civil Judge", the words and brackets "Civil Judge (Junior Division)" had been substituted] (d) every decree or order made or sentence passed by a Court of Comarca or a Court of Julgado shall be deemed for the purpose of execution to have been made or passed by the corresponding court of Senior Civil Judge or Junior Civil Judge, as the case may be. 3 [Provided that, on and from the commencement of the Daman and Diu Civil Courts (Amendment) Regulation, 2010, the provisions of this clause, in relation to Daman and Diu, shall have effect as if for the words "Senior Civil Judge or Junior Civil Judge", the words "Civil Judge (Senior Division) or Civil Judge (Junior Division)" had been substituted.'] Explanation:- In this section the expression "corresponding courts" means the court specified as such by order of the Administrator published in the Official Gazette. Inserted by Daman and Diu Civil Courts (Amendment) Regulation, 2010, w.e.f. 23-03-2010. Inserted by Daman and Diu Civil Courts (Amendment) Regulation, 2010, w.e.f. 23-03-2010. Inserted by Daman and Diu Civil Courts (Amendment) Regulation, 2010, w.e.f. 23-03-2010.
Goa Civil Courts Act, 1965_Section 35--> State(s): Goa, Daman and Diu Any reference in any law in force in the 1 [State of Goa] to the Court of Comarca or to the Court of Julgado or to the Judge thereof, shall be construed as a reference respectively to the Court of Senior Civil Judge and the Court of Junior Civil Judge, or to the Judge thereto. 2 [Provided that, on and from the commencement of the Daman and Diu Civil Courts (Amendment) Regulation, 2010, the provisions of this section, in relation to Daman and Diu, shall have effect as if for the words "Senior Civil Judge and the court of Junior Civil Judge", the words and brackets "Civil Judge (Senior Division) and the court of Civil Judge (Junior Division)" had been substituted] Substituted for the words "Union Territory", by Amendment Goa Act 22 of 2009. Inserted by Daman and Diu Civil Courts (Amendment) Regulation, 2010, w.e.f. 23-03-2010.
Goa Civil Courts Act, 1965_Section 36--> State(s): Goa, Daman and Diu If any difficulty arises in giving effect to the provisions of this Act, the 1 [Government] in consultation with the High Court may, by order, published in the Official Gazette, make such provisions or give such directions (not inconsistent with the provisions of this Act) as may appear 2 [to the Government] to be necessary for the removal of the difficulty. Secretariat, Panjim, October 25, 1965. P. B. Venkatasubramanian Secretary to the Government of Goa, Daman and Diu. Substituted for the word "Administrator", by Amendment Goa Act 22 of 2009. Substituted for the words "to him", by Amendment Goa Act 22 of 2009. 
