Delhi Luxuries Tax on Commodities Act, 2001_Section Preamble--> State(s): Delhi AN ACT to provide for the imposition and collection of luxuries tax on certain commodities and for matters, connected therewith and incidental thereto in the National Capital Territory of Delhi. BE it enacted by the Legislative Assembly of the National Capital Territory of Delhi in the Fifty-second Year of the Republic of India as Follows :-
Delhi Luxuries Tax on Commodities Act, 2001_Section 1--> State(s): Delhi (1) This Act may be called the Delhi Luxuries Tax on Commodities Act, 2001. (2) It extends to the whole of the National Capital Territory of Delhi. (3) It shall come into force on such date as the Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette appoint.
Delhi Luxuries Tax on Commodities Act, 2001_Section 2--> State(s): Delhi (1) In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires. (a) "Commissioner" means the Commissioner of sales tax appointed under subsection (1) of section 9 of the Delhi Sales Tax Act, 1975 (43 of 1975). (b) "Delhi" means the National Capital territory of Delhi. (c) "Delhi Sales Tax" means the Delhi Sales Tax Act. 1975 (43 of 1975). (d) "Government" means the Government of the National Capital Territory of Delhi and includes Lieutenant Governor. (e) "Lieutenant" Government means the Lieutenant Governor of the National Capital Territory of Delhi appointed by the President under article 239AA of the Constitution. (f) "Luxuries" means the commodities as specified in the Schedule. (g) "Person" includes any company or association or body of individuals whether incorporated or not a Hindu undivided family, a firm, a local authority, the Central Government, the Government of any State or Union territory. (h) "Prescribed" means prescribed by the rules made under this Act. (i) "Schedule" means the Schedule appended to this Act. (j) "Stickiest" means a person who has, in customary course of business, in his possession of or control over a stock of luxuries. Whether manufactured made or processed by him in Delhi, or brought by him into Delhi either on him own account or on account or on account of others, from any place outside Delhi, for stocking vending supplying or distributing such luxuries in Delhi. (k) "Stock of Luxuries" means the quantity of luxuries being the own stock of the stockiest or stocks entered in the records or accounts of the stockiest or the quantity of luxuries the stockiest receives or procures during any year for stocking vending distributing or supplying to a wholesaler, intermediary, retailer or any person. (l) "Tax" means the tax on luxuries payable under this Act. (m) "Turnover of stock of luxuries" in relation to a stockiest, in respect of any year or part thereof, means the aggregate of the values of stock of luxuries. (n) "value of stock of luxuries" means :- (i) in respect of any other stockiest, being a manufacturer of any of the luxuries the value of such luxuries calculated at the ex-factory price at the time of receipt or entry thereof in his stock. (ii) in respect of any other stockiest, the value of such luxuries calculated at the price thereof as per the bill, invoice of consignment note of other document of like nature, of any person within Delhi or outside Delhi, from whom such luxuries are received. (iii) in respect of any stockiest mentioned in sub-clauses (i) and (ii) the value of stock of luxuries shall include. (A) excise duty, countervailing duty paid or payable on such luxuries by a manufacturer or importer thereof as the case may be. (B) transport charge, insurance charges, packing charges, insurance charges, packing charges, forwarding and handling charges, if any, for carrying such luxuries to any premises, godown, warehouse or any other place of the stockiest in Delhi. Provided that where the purchase invoice or bill is not produced or when the invoice or bill produced is reasonably believed to be false or if, the luxuries are acquired or obtained otherwise than by way purchase the value of goods shall be the value at which the luxuries of like kind or quality are sold or are capable of being sold in the open market. (o) "Year" means the year commencing on the first day of April. (2) All words and expressions used in this Act, but not defined herein but defined in the Delhi Sales Tax Act shall have the meanings assigned to them in that Act.
Delhi Luxuries Tax on Commodities Act, 2001_Section 3--> State(s): Delhi (1) There shall be levied and collected a tax on the turnover of stock of luxuries at such rate not exceeding fifty per centum, as the Government may, by notification in the official Gazette, fix in this behalf and different rates may be fixed for different class or classes of luxuries. (2) The tax leviable under this Act shall be paid by registered stockist or a stockist liable to get himself registered under this Act. (3) Notwithstanding anything contained in subsection (I) but subject to the production of proof as may be prescribed no tax shall be leviable on the value of stock of luxuries.:- (i) which are dispatched to any place outside Delhi. (ii) on which tax under this Act has been paid.
Delhi Luxuries Tax on Commodities Act, 2001_Section 4--> State(s): Delhi For the purpose of levy and assessment of tax it shall be presumed that every registered stockist or every stockist liable to get himself registered under this Act whose place of business is situate within Delhi is liable to pay tax on the value of all the stock of luxuries as are dealt with by him and the burden of proving that any transaction of such stockist in any of the luxuries is not liable shall lie on such stockist.
Delhi Luxuries Tax on Commodities Act, 2001_Section 5--> State(s): Delhi The Government may, by notification in the official Gazette, subject to such conditions and restrictions as it may specify exempt or reduce the tax payable under this Act in respect of any class of luxuries or stockists.
Delhi Luxuries Tax on Commodities Act, 2001_Section 6--> State(s): Delhi (1) Every stockist liable to pay tax under this Act shall get himself registered under this Act, in such manner and within such period as may be prescribed. Provided that the stockist who are already registered under the Delhi Sales Tax Act, on furnishing such information as may be prescribed, shall be deemed to be registered under this Act as well
Delhi Luxuries Tax on Commodities Act, 2001_Section 7--> State(s): Delhi (1) Every stockist registered under this Act and every other stockist, who may be required so to do by the Commissioner by notice served in the prescribed manner, shall furnish such returns of his turnover of stocks by such dates and to such authority and make payment of tax due and interest accrued on delayed payments in the manner and in the form as may be prescribed. (2) Every registered stockist and every stockist required to furnished returns under subsection (1) shall pay into the Government treasury or the Reserve Bank of India or in such other manner as may be prescribed, the full amount of tax due from him under this Act according to such returns and shall, where such payment is made into a Government treasury or the Reserve Bank of India, furnish, along with the returns, a receipt from such treasury or the bank, showing the payment of such amount. (3) The interest, in addition to the tax due, shall be payable at two per cent per month if the stockist if the stockist fails to pay the due or payable, along with his a returns under substation (1) and where the stockist defaults or is deemed to be in default in making the payment of tax assessed or reassessed under this Act, from the date of such default. (4) Interest at the rate as provided in subsection (3) shall also be payable for the period during which the realization of any amount of tax remains stayed by the order of any court or authority and such order is subsequently Vacated. (5) The interest payable under this section shall be deemed to be tax under this Act.
Delhi Luxuries Tax on Commodities Act, 2001_Section 8--> State(s): Delhi (1) Where all the returns due for the year have been furnished and tax due according to such returns paid within the prescribed period, the stockist shall be deemed to have been assessed in respect of the year and the Commissioner shall make a summary assessment without requiring the presence of the stockist within a period of one year from the end of the year to which the returns pertain and in making such a summary assessment the Commissioner shall have the authority to make arithmetical adjustments as well as interest that might be due for belated payment of the tax. (2) Notwithstanding anything contained in subsection (1), whether or not a return has been furnished and the tax due according to such return paid within the period prescribed, the Commissioner, if he is not satisfied with the return filed or considers it necessary or expedient to ensure that the stockist has not understated his turnover of stock of luxuries shall serve the stockist a notice requiring him, on a date to be specified therein to attend his office and to produce or cause to be produced there any evidence on which the stockist may rely in support of the return and to satisfy the Commissioner in regard there to : Provided that no notice under this subsection shall be served on the stockist shall be served on the stockist after the expiry of two years from the end of the year to which the return pertains. (3) On the date specified in the notice, or as soon as may be thereafter, the Commissioner shall, after considering all the evidence which may be produced, assess the amount of tax due from the stockist. (4) If a stockist fails to comply with the terms of any notice issued under subsection (2) the Commissioner shall assess to the best of his judgment the amount of tax due from him. (5) Where an assessment under subsection (1) to subsection (4) is not concluded within the time. If any specified therein, the turnover of stock of luxuries, declared by the stockist in his return, shall be decamed to have been assessed on the basis of the return and the provisions of this Act relating to assessment, payment and recovery of tax, appeal and revision shall mutatis mutandis apply to such deemed assessment. (6) If upon information which has come into his possession, the Commissioner is satisfied that any stockist who is liable to pay tax under this Act in respect of any period, has failed to get himself registered under section 6, the Commissioner shall proceed in such manner as may be prescribed to assess to the best of his judgment the amount of tax due from the stockist in respect of such period and all subsequent periods and in making such assessment shall give the stockist a reasonable opportunity of being heard, and the Commissioner may, if he is satisfied that the default was made without reasonable cause, direct that the stockist shall pay by way of penalty, in addition to the amount of the tax so assessed a sum not exceeding twice that amount. (7) No assessment under the provision of subsection (6) shall be made after the expiry of six years from the end of the year in respect of which or part of which the tax is assessed.
Delhi Luxuries Tax on Commodities Act, 2001_Section 9--> State(s): Delhi (1) Where after a stockist has been assessed under section 8 for any year or part thereof, the Commissioner has reason to believe that the whole or any part of the turnover of a stockist in respect of any period has escaped assessment to tax or has been under-assessed or has been assessed at a lower rate than the rate at which it is assessable, the Commissioner may:- (a) within six years from the date of final order of assessment, in a case where the stockist has concealed, omitted or failed to disclose fully the particulars of such turnover; and (b) within four years from the date of the final order of assessment, in any other case, server a notice on the stockist and after giving the stockist an opportunity of being heard and making such inquiry as he considers necessary, proceed to determine to the best of his judgment, the amount of tax due from the stockist in respect of such turnover and the provisions of this Act shall, so far as may be, apply accordingly. (2) No order of assessment, reassessment or recomputation shall be made under sub-section (1) after :- (a) the expiry of six years or, as the case may be, four years from the date of final order of assessment as specified in sub-section (1). whichever is later. (b) the expiry of one year from the date of service of notice under sub-section (1), whichever is later.
Delhi Luxuries Tax on Commodities Act, 2001_Section 10--> State(s): Delhi Every registered stockist or every stockist or every stockist liable to get himself registered under this Act shall maintain and keep at his place of business,a true account relating to his business in such manner and form as may be prescribed.
Delhi Luxuries Tax on Commodities Act, 2001_Section 11--> State(s): Delhi The provisions of the Delhi Sales Tax Act, and the rules framed thereunder regarding inspection, search and seizure shall mutatis mutandis apply to this Act.
Delhi Luxuries Tax on Commodities Act, 2001_Section 12--> State(s): Delhi (1) Where any person :- (a) liable to be registered under this Act fails to register himself. (b) Liable to file the return, fails to file return or pay the tax due according to such return with in the time stipulated together with interest accrued thereon, if any, or knowingly prepares or produces false accounts, registers or documents or furnishes false return in relation to his business or makes a false disclosure or averment in any statement required to be recorded or in any declaration to be filled under this Act or the rules framed thereunder. (c) intentionally avoids or evades or conceals or conceals tax or deliberately conceals his turnover of tax liability in any manner. (d) deliberately disregard a notice of demand or fails to pay the amount in terms of any notice of demand a period of six months has lapsed since the receipt of the notice of demand by him. (e) fails to maintain accounts in the manner as required under section 10 of this Act. (f) aids or abcts any person in the commission f any such offence as aforesaid. he shall be punishable with simple imprisonment for a term which may extend to six months or with fine which may extend to twenty thousand rupees or with both. Explanation - An offence under clause(d) of this sub-section shall be deemed to be a continuing offence until full payment is made. (2) Where an offence under this section is committed with regard to a business, every person, who was responsible for the conduct of the business at the time when the offence was committed or who was answerable for a legal lapse in any manner by his action or omission, shall be liable to be proceeded against and punished under this section. (3) Without prejudice to the provisions contained in sub-section (2), where an offence under this section is commited by a firm or a company and it is found that the offence has been committed with the consent or connivance of or is attributable to any neglect on the part of any partner of the firm or Chairman, Managing Director or Director of the company, such partner, Chairman, Managing Director shall be personally liable to be proceeded against and punished under this section. (4) Any proceeding under this Act including the proceeding of assessment, rectification or recovery other than the proceeding for imposition of penalty, shall be carried on without prejudice to any prosecution under this section. (5) If a dealer fails without reasonable cause to comply with any of this Act or the rules framed thereunder, shall, if no other penalty is provided under this Act for such contravention or failure be imposition of penalty, not less than five thousand rupees and not exceeding fifteen per cent of the value of goods, whichever is less and where such contravention or failure is continuing one, to a further penalty not exceeding five hundred rupees for each day of default during the period of the continuance of the contravention or failure. Provided that no such penalty shall be imposed without affording the dealer an opportunity of being beard. (6) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (2 of 1974), all offences defined in sub-section (1) shall be cognizable and bailable. (7) No court shall take cognizance of any offence punishable under this Act or the rules framed thereunder except with the previous sanction of the Commissioner, and no court inferior to that of a Metropolitan Magistrate shall try any such offence.
Delhi Luxuries Tax on Commodities Act, 2001_Section 13--> State(s): Delhi Subject to the other provisions of this Act and the rules framed thereunder, the authorities for the time being empowered to assess, reassess, collect and enforce payment of any tax, interest and penalty under the Delhi Sales Tax Act, shall assess, reassess, collect and enforce payment of tax, including any interest or payable by a dealer under this Act as if the tax or interest or penalty payable by such a dealer under this Act is a tax, interest or penalty under the Delhi Sales Tax Act and for this purpose they may exercise all or any of the powers they have under the Delhi Sales Tax Act and the rules framed thereunder and the provisions of the Delhi Sales Tax Act and the rules framed thereunder relating to returns, assessment, notice, rectification, collection, registration, liability of any firm or Hindu undivided family to pay tax in the event of the dissolution of such firm or partition of such family special mode of recovery of tax, appeals, revision, references, refunds, fines, penalties, charging or payment of interest and the treatment of documents furnished by a dealer as confidential, re-assessment of escaped turnover recovery of tax, maintenance of accounts inspection search and seizure, liability in representative character references of cases of the High Court of Delhi compounding of offences and other miscellaneous matter shall mutatis mutandis apply accordingly. Explanation :- All the provisions of the Delhi Tax Act regarding proceedings under the said Act, in so far as the same are not inconsistent with the provisions of this Act shall apply mutatis mutandis to the proceeding under this Act.
Delhi Luxuries Tax on Commodities Act, 2001_Section Sch.1--> State(s): Delhi See clauses (f) and (i) of Section 2 and Section 17 Name of Commodity 1.Cigarettes 2.Pan masala, perfumed or treated otherwise of any form or description. 3.Smoking mixtures for pipes and cigarettes 4.Tobacco and tobacco products (excluding bidi) not specifically mentioned in this schedule All tobacco items used in rural-traditional smoking equipments shall be exempted from tax. 5.Textiles and fabrics (excluding bidi) exceeding the price range up to which the exemption is granted under section 5 6.Automobiles and all vehicles above capacity of 1300 CC 7.Watches exceeding the price range up to which the exemption is granted under section 5 8.Home Theaters 9.All luxury Televisions 10.Fountain Pens exceeding the price range up to which the exemption is granted under Section 5 11.Furniture exceeding the price range up to which the exemption is granted under Section 5 12.Ready-made Garments exceeding the price range upto which exemption is granted under Section 5. 13.Crystal items exceeding the price range up to which the exemption is granted under Section 5. 14.Perfume exceeding the price range up to which the exemption is granted under Section 5 15.Air Conditioners 16.Indian made foreign liquor 17.Cosmetics, toilet goods including hair dyes, oil, soaps, shampoos exceeding the price range up to which exemption is granted under Section 5. 18.Music systems exceeding the price range up to which exemption is granted under Section 5. 19.Bath room fittings and ceramic tiles exceeding the price range up to which exemption has been granted under section 5. 20.Automobile accessories exceeding the price range up to which exemption has been granted under Section 5. 21.Refrigerators, automatic washing machines exceeding the price range up to which exemption has been granted under Section 5. 22.All items under the WTO list excluding medicines. 23.Ivory articles exceeding the price rang up to which exemption has been granted under Section 5. 24.All arms ammunitions and accessories excluding for defence, paramilitary and police purposes. 
