Delhi Motor Vehicles Taxation (Amendment) Act, 1969_Section Preamble--> State(s): Delhi An Act further to amend the Delhi Motor Vehicles Taxation Act, 1962.BE it enacted by Parliament in the Twentieth Year of the Republic of India as follows:--
Delhi Motor Vehicles Taxation (Amendment) Act, 1969_Section 1--> State(s): Delhi (1)This Act may be called the Delhi Motor Vehicles Taxation (Amendment) Act,1969. (2)It shall come into force on the 1st day of April, 1969.
Delhi Motor Vehicles Taxation (Amendment) Act, 1969_Section 2--> State(s): Delhi In the Delhi Motor Vehicles Taxation Act, 1962 (57 of 1962.) (hereinafter referred to as the principal Act), in section 4, in sub-section (2), for clause (c) and the proviso thereto, the following clause shall be substituted, namely:-- "(c) for any period less than a quarter expiring on the last day of the quarter, at one-twelfth of the annual rate for each complete month or part thereof included in such period".
Delhi Motor Vehicles Taxation (Amendment) Act, 1969_Section 3--> State(s): Delhi For Schedule I to the principal Act, the following Schedule shall be substituted, namely:- "SCHEDULE I (See section 3) Description of motor vehicles Annual rate of tax for each motor vehicle Rupees PART A.- Motor vehicles fitted solely with pneumatic tyres:-- I. Motor cycles and tricycles(including motor scooters and cycles with attachment for propelling the same by mechanised power):- (a) motorcycles, a scooter (flat rate). Forty. (b) scooterettes and auto cycles (flat rate) Twenty. (c) tricycles (flat rate)...... Fifty. (d) motor cycles or tricycles used for drawing a trailer or side car.. The rate specified in in (a) or (b) or (c) above plus fifteen rupees.  II. Motor vehicles (adapted and used for invalids) the registered unlined weight of which does not exceed two hundred and fifty kilograms ...... Ten.  III. Motor vehicles (including tricycles) used for the transport or haulage of goods or materials, the registered laden weight of which -- (a) does not exceed one tonne .... One hundred (b) exceeds one tonne but does not exceed two tones .. Two hundred and fifty. (c) exceeds two tones but does not exceed four tones ...... Three hundred and Seventy-five. (d) exceeds four tones but does not exceed six tones ...... Five hundred. (e) exceeds six tones but does not exceed eight tones ...... Six hundred and twenty five (f) exceeds eight tones but does not exceed nine tones ...... Seven hundred and fifty. (g) exceeds nine tones but does not exceed ten tones ...... Eight hundred and seventy-five. (h) exceeds ten tones........ The rate specified in (g) above plus one tones. IV.Additional tax payable, in respect of vehicles referred to in Item III, used for drawing trailers-- (a) for each trailer the registered laden weight of which does not exceed two tones ...... One hundred and twenty five. (b) for each trailer the registered laden weight of which exceeds two tones : Two hundred and fifty. Provided that two or more vehicles shall not be chargeable under this Item in respect of the same trailer.  V.Motor vehicles (including tricycles) plying for hire and used for the transport of passengers, when-- (a) licensed to carry, in all, not more than two passengers (excluding driver) .. One hundred. (b) licensed to carry, in all, more than two but not more than four passengers (excluding driver and conductor) .. Two hundred. (c) licensed to carry, in all, more than four passengers but not more than six passengers (excluding driver and conductor) Three hundred and seventy-five. (d) licensed to carry, in all, more than six passengers but not more than eighteen passengers (excluding driver and conductor) Five hundred. (e) licensed to carry more than eighteen passengers (excluding driver and conductor) The rate specified in (d) above plus Seventy-five rupees for every passenger in addition to eighteen passengers which the vehicle is so licensed to carry-subject to a maximum of two thousand seven hundred and fifty rupees per annum. VI.Motor vehicles owned by Airline Companies or Corporations for carrying passengers and staff -- (a) the seating capacity of which does not exceed four (excluding driver) .. Two hundred. (b) the seating capacity of which exceeds four but does not exceed six (excluding driver) .... .. Three hundred and seventy-five. (c) the seating capacity of which exceeds six but does not exceed eighteen (excluding driver) .. .. Five hundred. (d) the seating capacity of which exceeds eighteen .... .. The rate specified in (c) above plus seventy- five rupees for every person in addition to eighteen persons subject to a maximum of two thousand seven seven hundred and fifty rupees per annum. VII.Break-down vans used for towing disabled vehicles ....... Two hundred and fifty. VIII.Motor vehicles other than those liable to tax under the foregoing provisions of this Schedule, the registered unlined weight of which-- (a) does not exceed one thousand kilograms.. One hundred. (b) exceeds one thousand kilograms but does not exceed one thousand and five hundred kilograms ...... One hundred and twenty-five. (c) exceeds one thousand and five hundred kilograms but does not exceed two thousand kilograms .... One hundred and seventy-five. (d) exceeds two thousand kilograms .. The rate specified in (c) above plus one hundred and twenty-five rupees for every one thousand Kilograms or part thereof in IX.Additional tax payable in respect of vehicles referred to in Item VIII, if such vehicles are used for drawing trailers--- (i) for each trailer the registered unlined weight of which does not exceed one tonne Fifty. (ii) for each trailer the registered unlined weight of which exceeds one tonne : One hundred. Provided that two or more vehicles shall not be chargeable under this Item in respect of the same trailer. PART B.- Motor vehicles other than those fitted solely with pneumatic tyros .. The rates shown in Part A plus fifty per cent.thereof. 
