Delhi Motor Vehicles Taxation (Amendment) Act, 1983_Section Preamble--> State(s): Delhi An Act further to amend the Delhi Motor Vehicles Taxation Act, 1962.BE it enacted by Parliament in the Thirty-fourth Year of the Republic of India as follows:-
Delhi Motor Vehicles Taxation (Amendment) Act, 1983_Section 1--> State(s): Delhi (1) This Act may be called the Delhi Motor Vehicles Taxation (Amendment) Act, 1983. (2) It shall come into force on such date as the Administrator may, by notification in the Official Gazette, appoint.
Delhi Motor Vehicles Taxation (Amendment) Act, 1983_Section 2--> State(s): Delhi Throughout the Delhi Motor Vehicles Taxation Act, 1962 (57 of 1962) (hereinafter referred to as the principal Act), for the words "Chief Commissioner", wherever they occur, the word "Administrator" shall be substituted.
Delhi Motor Vehicles Taxation (Amendment) Act, 1983_Section 3--> State(s): Delhi In section 2 of the principal Act, for clause (a), the following clause shall be substituted, namely:- '(a) "Administrator" means the Administrator of Delhi appointed by the President under article 239 of the Constitution;
Delhi Motor Vehicles Taxation (Amendment) Act, 1983_Section 4--> State(s): Delhi Section 3 of the principal Act shall be renumbered as sub-section (1) thereof and, after sub-section (1) as so renumbered, the following sub-section shall be inserted, namely:- "(2) The Administrator may, by notification in the Official Gazette, increase from time to time, the rate specified in Schedule I in relation to any motor vehicles: Provided that the rate as so increased shall in no case exceed the rate as so specified by more than twenty-five per cent.thereof.".
Delhi Motor Vehicles Taxation (Amendment) Act, 1983_Section 5--> State(s): Delhi In section 23 of the principal Ac, for sub-section (3), the following sub-section shall be substituted, namely:- "(3) Every rule made under this section and every notification issued under sub-section (2) of section 3 shall be laid, as soon as may be, after it is made or issued, before each House of Parliament, while it is in session for a total period of thirty days which may be comprised in one session or in two or more successive sessions, and if, before the expiry of the session immediately following the session or the successive sessions aforesaid, both Houses agree in making any modification in the rule or notification, or both Houses agree that the rule should not be made or the notification should not be issued, the rule or notification shall thereafter have effect only in such modified form or be of no effect, as the case may be; so, however, that any such modification or annulment shall be without prejudice to the validity of anything previously done under that rule or notification.".
Delhi Motor Vehicles Taxation (Amendment) Act, 1983_Section 6--> State(s): Delhi For Schedule I to the principal Act, the following Schedule shall be substituted, namely:- "SCHEDULE I (See section 3)  Description of motor vehicles Annual rate of tax for each motor vehicle  Rupees PART A.- Motor vehicles fitted solely with pneumatic tyres- I Motor cycles and tricycles (including motor scooters and cycles with attachment for propelling the same by mechanised power) -  (a) motor cycles, scooters (flat rate) Forty. (b) scooterettes and auto-cycles (flat rate) ...... Twenty. (c) tricycles (flat rate) .... Fifty. (d) motor vehicles specified in (a) or (b) or (c) above used for drawing a trailer or side car...... The rate specified in (a) or (b) or (c) above plus fifteen rupees. II. Motor vehicles (adapted and used for invalids) the registered unladen weight of which does not exceed three hundred kilograms ...... Ten. III Motor vehicles (including tricycles) used for the transport of haulage of goods or materials, the registered laden weight of which-  (a) does not exceed one tonne .. Two hundred and twenty. (b) exceeds one tonnes but does not exceed two tonnes ...... Three hundred and ten (c) exceeds two tonnes but does not exceed four tonnes ..... Four hundred and seventy. (d) exceeds four tonnes but does not exceed six tones ..... Six hundred and thirty. (e) exceeds six tonnes but does not exceed eight tonnes..... Seven hundred and eighty. (f) exceeds eight tonnes but does not exceed nine tonnes ..... Nine hundred and forty. (f) exceeds eight tonnes but does not exceed nine tonnes Nine hundred and forty. (h) exceeds ten tonnes, The rate specified in (g) above plus one hundred and fifty-six rupees for every one tonne or part thereof in addition to ten tonnes IV IV. Additional tax payable in respect of vehicles referred to in Item III, used for drawing trailers-  (a) for each trailer the registered laden weight of which does not exceed two tonnes... . . . One hundred and fifty. (b) for each trailer the registered laden weight of which exceeds two tonnes: Three hundred. Provided that two or more vehicles shall not be chargeable under this Item in respect of the same trailer. V Motor vehicles (including tricycles) plying for hire and used for the transport of passengers, when-  (a) licensed to carry, in all, not more than two passengers (excluding driver) . One hundred. (b) licensed to carry, in all, more than two but not more than four passengers (excluding driver and conductor) . Two hundred. (c) licensed to carry, in all, more than four passengers but not more than six passengers (excluding driver and conductor)...... Three hundred and seventy-five. (d) licensed to carry, in all, more than six passengers but not more than eighteen passengers (excluding driver and conductor)...... Six hundred and thirty. (e) licensed to carry more than eighteen passengers (excluding driver and conductor) ..... The rate specified in (d) above plus ninety four rupees for every passengers in addition to eighteen passengers which the vehicle is so licensed to carry. VI. Motor vehicles owned by Airline Companies or Corporations for carrying passengers and staff-  (a) the seating capacity of which does not exceed four (excluding driver) . Two hundred. (b) the seating capacity of which exceeds four but does not exceed six (excluding driver)...... Three hundred and seventy-five. (c) the seating capacity of which exceeds six but does not exceed eighteen (excluding driver).... Six hundred and thirty. (d) the seating capacity of which exceeds eighteen ..... The rate specified in (c) above plus ninety four upees for every person in addition to eighteen persons. VII. Break-down vans used for towing disabled vehicles and tower wagons used for maintenance of overhead electric lines.. VIII. Motor vehicles other than those liable to tax under the foregoing provisions of this Schedule, the registered unladen weight of which-  (a) does not exceed one thousand kilograms...... One hundred and twenty-five. (b) exceeds one thousand kilograms but does not exceed one thousand and five hundred kilograms... One hundred and sixty. (c) exceeds one thousand and five hundred kilograms but does not exceed two thousand kilograms ... Two hundred and thirty. (d) exceeds two thousand kilograms . The rate specified in (c) above plus one hundred and fifty rupees for every one thousand kilograms or part thereof in addition to two thousand kilograms. IX. Additional tax payable in respect of vehicles referred to in Item VIII, if such vehicles are used for drawing trailers-  (i) for each trailer the registered unladen weight of which does not exceed one tonne ...... Sixty. (ii) for each trailer the registered unladen weight of which exceeds one tonne : One hundred and twenty. Provided that two or more vehicles shall not be chargeable under this Item in respect of the same trailer.  PART B.- Motor vehicles other than those fitted solely with pneumatic tyres.... The rates shown in Part A plus fifty per cent.thereof. NOTE:-The registered unladen weight of motor vehicle shall be as specified in the certificate of registration.". 
