National Law School of Delhi University (Amendment) Act, 2009_Section Preamble--> State(s): Delhi An Act to amend the National Law School of Delhi University Act, 2007 (Delhi Act 1 of 2008). Be it enacted by the Legislative Assembly of the National Capital Territory of Delhi in the Sixtieth Year of the Republic of India as follows:-
National Law School of Delhi University (Amendment) Act, 2009_Section 1--> State(s): Delhi (1) This Act may be called the National Law School of Delhi University (Amendment) Act, 2009. (2) It shall come into force on the date of its publication in the Delhi Gazette.
National Law School of Delhi University (Amendment) Act, 2009_Section 2--> State(s): Delhi In the National Law School of Delhi University Act, 2007 (Delhi Act 1 of 2008) (hereinafter referred to as the "Principal Act"), in the long title, for the words "School of Delhi University Act", occurring after the word "Law" and before the figures "2007", the words "University, Delhi Act," shall be substituted.
National Law School of Delhi University (Amendment) Act, 2009_Section 3--> State(s): Delhi In the Principal Act, in Section 1, in sub-section (1) for the words "School of Delhi University Act", occurring after the word "Law" and before the figures "2007", the words "University, Delhi Act," shall be substituted.
National Law School of Delhi University (Amendment) Act, 2009_Section 4--> State(s): Delhi In the Principal Act, in Section 2, for clause (12), the following clause shall be substituted, namely :- "(12) "University" means the National Law University, Delhi established under Section 3 of this Act;"
National Law School of Delhi University (Amendment) Act, 2009_Section 5--> State(s): Delhi In the Principal Act, in Section 3, for sub-section(l), the following sub-section shall be substituted, namely :- "(1) There shall be established in the National Capital Territory of Delhi a University by the name of "the National Law University, Delhi."
National Law School of Delhi University (Amendment) Act, 2009_Section 6--> State(s): Delhi In the Principal Act, in Section 9, for sub-section (2), the following sub-section shall be substituted, namely "(2) The term of the Vice-Chancellor shall be for a period of five years."
National Law School of Delhi University (Amendment) Act, 2009_Section 7--> State(s): Delhi In the Principal Act, in Section 13 :- (a) in sub-section (1), clause (a) shall be omitted and the remaining clauses shall be re-numbered as clauses (a) 1o (h) respectively." ; (b) for sub-section (2) the following sub-section shall be substituted, namely :- "(2) The Vice-Chancellor shall be the Chairman of the Executive Council.".
National Law School of Delhi University (Amendment) Act, 2009_Section 8--> State(s): Delhi in the Principal Act, in Section 14, for sub-section (8), the following sub-section shall be substituted, namely :- "(8) Every meeting of the Executive Council shall be presided over by the Vice-Chancellor and in his absence by a member chosen by a the members present." .
National Law School of Delhi University (Amendment) Act, 2009_Section 9--> State(s): Delhi In the Principal Act, in Section 20, in sub-section (4), for the words "three years", the words "five years" shall be substituted.
National Law School of Delhi University (Amendment) Act, 2009_Section 10--> State(s): Delhi In the Principal Act, in Section.21:- (a) in sub-section (1), after the word "person", occurring after the word "academic" and before the words "not below", the words "in law" shall be inserted; (b) after sub-section (2), the following sub-section shall be inserted, namely:- "(3) The term of appointment of the Registrar shall be for a period of five years or till he attains the age of sixty-five years, whichever is earlier, and he shall be eligible for re-appointment by the Vice-Chancellor with the approval of the Chancellor.".
National Law School of Delhi University (Amendment) Act, 2009_Section 11--> State(s): Delhi In the Principal Act, for Section 26, the following section shall be substituted, namely "26. Appointment of first Vice-Chancellor and first Registrar- Notwithstanding anything contained in this Act and the Statutes the first Vice-Chancellor who shall be an academic person in law or an eminent jurist, shall be appointed by the Chancellor and shall hold office of the Vice-Chancellor for a period of five years and the person so appointed shall be eligible for grant of extension in tenure by the Chancellor. The first Registrar who shall be an academic person in law and of the rank of not less than a professor shall be appointed by the Chancellor on the recommendations of the Vice-Chancellor. The said officer shall hold office for a period of five years or till a regular Registrar is appointed, whichever is earlier." By Order and in the Name of Lieutenant Governor of National Capital Territory of Delhi, (Savita Rao), Joint. Secretary 
