Societies Registration (Delhi Amendment) Act, 1954_Section Preamble--> State(s): Delhi An Act to amend the Societies Registration Act, I860, in its application to the State of Delhi. BE It enacted by the Delhi State Legislative Assembly in the Fifth Year of the Republic of India as follows: -
Societies Registration (Delhi Amendment) Act, 1954_Section 1--> State(s): Delhi (1) This Act may be called the Societies Registration (Delhi Amendment) Act, 1954. (2) It shall come into force on the date on which it receives the assent of the President.
Societies Registration (Delhi Amendment) Act, 1954_Section 2--> State(s): Delhi In section 12 of the Societies Registration Act, 1860, hereinafter called the said Act, after the words "other society" the words "or whenever the governing body of any: society registered under this Act decides to change the name of the society" shall be inserted.
Societies Registration (Delhi Amendment) Act, 1954_Section 3--> State(s): Delhi After section 12 of the said Act, the following new sections shall be inserted, namely:- "12A. Registration of change of name:-(1) Where a proposition for change of name has been agreed to and confirmed in the manner prescribed by section 12, a copy of the proposition so agreed to and confirmed shall be forwarded to the Registrar **1 for registering the change of name. If the proposed name is identical with that by which any other existing society has been registered, or in the opinion of the Registrar so nearly resembles such name as to be likely to deceive the public or the members of either society, the Registrar shall refuse to register the change of name. (2) Save as provided in sub-section (1), the Registrar shall, if he is satisfied that the provisions of this Act in respect of change of name have been complied with, register, the change of name and issue a certificate of registration altered to meet the circumstances of the case. On the issue of such a certificate the change of name shall be complete. (3) The Registrar shall charge for any copy of a certificate issued under sub-section (2) a fee of rupee one 2 [or such larger fee not exceeding rupees five] as the State Government may, from time to time, direct; and all fees so paid shall form part of the 3 [Consolidated Fund of India]. 12B. Effect of change of name:-The change in the name of a society shall not affect any rights or obligations of the society or render defective and legal proceeding by or against the society; and any legal proceeding which might have been continued or commenced by or against it by the former name may be continued or commenced by or against it by the new name. 12C. Registration of change of names effected before coming into force of Delhi Act 9 of 1954:-If any society registered under this Act has, before the date of the coming into force of the Societies Registration (Delhi Amendment) Act, 1954, intimated to the Registrar **4 the change of its name and if the Registrar has recorded such change, the Registrar may, notwithstanding anything contained in this Act, on an application made by the society in this behalf and on payment of a fee as provided for in sub-section (3) of section 12A, register the change of such name and issue a certificate to the society under sub-section (2) of the said section 12A. On the issue of such certificate the change shall be deemed to be complete from the date on which such change was recorded by the Registrar, notwithstanding the fact that the society had not followed the procedure prescribed in sections 12 and 12A." Omitted by Notification No. GSR 83, dt. 16-1-1960, see Gazette of India, Pt II, see 3(i) dt. 23-1-1960, p. 144. Subs. by s. 2 of Delhi Act 5 of 1955 for the word "or such larger fee". Subs. by A.O. (No. 5) 1957 for the words "Consolidated Fund of the State". Omitted by Notification No. GSR 83, dt. 16-1-1960, see Gazette of India, Pt. II, Sec. 30(i), dt. 23-1-1960. P. 144. 
