West Bengal Prevention of Defacement of Property Act, 1976_Section Preamble--> State(s): Delhi An Act to provide for the prevention of defacement property. Where as it is expedient in the public interest to provide for the prevention of defacement of property and for matters connected therewith or incidental thereto- It is hereby enacted in the Twenty seventh Year of the Republic of India by the Legislature of West Bengal as follows-
West Bengal Prevention of Defacement of Property Act, 1976_Section 1--> State(s): Delhi (1) This Act may be called in West Bengal Prevention of Defacement of Property Act, 1976.1 (2) It extends to the whole of the Union Territory of Delhi. (3) It shall come into force on such date as the Administrator may be notification, in the Delhi Gazette appoint. Published in GOI Pt. 113 (i) (E) dated 28.9.1983 and extended to the Union Territory of Delhi Vide GSR 756(E) dated 28.9.1983.
West Bengal Prevention of Defacement of Property Act, 1976_Section 2--> State(s): Delhi In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires,- (a) "Administrator" means the Administrator of the Union Territory of Delhi appointed by the President under Article 239 of the Constitution; (aa) "defacement" includes impairing or interfering with the appearance or beauty, damaging, disfiguring, spoiling or injuring in any other way whatsoever and the word "deface" shall be construed accordingly; (b) "property" includes ally building, hut, structure, wall, tree, fence, post, pole or any other erection; (c) "writing" includes decoration, lettering, ornamentation etc., produced by stencil.
West Bengal Prevention of Defacement of Property Act, 1976_Section 3--> State(s): Delhi (1) Whoever defaces any property in public view by writing of marketing with ink, chalk, paint or any other material, except for the purpose of indicating the name and address of the owner or occupier of such property shall be punishable with imprisonment for a term which may extend to six months or with fine which may extend to one thousand rupees or with both. (2) Where any offence committee under sub-section (1) is for the benefit of some other person or a company or other body corporate or an association of person (whether incorporated or not), then such other person and every president, chairman, director, partner, manager, secretary, agent or any other officer or person concerned with the management thereof, as the case may be, shall unless he proves that the offence was committed without his knowledge or consent, be deemed to be built of such offence.
West Bengal Prevention of Defacement of Property Act, 1976_Section 4--> State(s): Delhi An offence punishable under this Act shall be cognizable.
West Bengal Prevention of Defacement of Property Act, 1976_Section 5--> State(s): Delhi Without prejudice to the provisions Section 3, it shall be competent for the Administrator to take such steps as may be necessary for erasing any writing freeing defacement or removing any mark from any property.
West Bengal Prevention of Defacement of Property Act, 1976_Section 6--> State(s): Delhi The provision of this Act shall have effect notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in any other law for the time being in force.
West Bengal Prevention of Defacement of Property Act, 1976_Section 7--> State(s): Delhi [Omitted.] 
