Acharya N. G. Ranga Agricultural University (Amendment) Act, 2017_Section Preamble--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh An Act further to amend Acharya N.G. Ranga Agricultural University Act, 1963. Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Andhra Pradesh in the Sixty-eighth Year of the Republic of India as follows:-
Acharya N. G. Ranga Agricultural University (Amendment) Act, 2017_Section 1--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh (1) This Act may be called Acharya N. G. Ranga Agricultural University (Amendment) Act, 2017. (2) It shall be deemed to have come into force with effect from the 2nd July, 2016.
Acharya N. G. Ranga Agricultural University (Amendment) Act, 2017_Section 2--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh In Acharya N. G. Ranga Agricultural University Act, 1963, (herein after referred to as the principal Act), for the long title, the following shall be substituted, namely:- "An Act to provide for the establishment and incorporation of a teaching and affiliating university in Agricultural Sciences in the State of Andhra Pradesh and for the matters connected therewith or incidental thereto.".
Acharya N. G. Ranga Agricultural University (Amendment) Act, 2017_Section 3--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh In section 2 of the principal Act,- (1) after clause (a), the following clause shall be inserted, namely:- "(aa) 'affiliated college/educational institution' means a college/educational institution affiliated to the university providing courses of study qualifying students for admission to university examinations in accordance with the Regulations;". (2) after clause (e), the following clause shall be inserted, namely:- "(ea) 'college' means a college established and maintained by, or affiliated to, or recognized by the University;". (3) after clause (g), the following clause shall be inserted, namely:- "(ga) 'institution' means an institution offering academic programmes or research in Agricultural Sciences, Agricultural Engineering & Technology and Home Science or any other course as may be prescribed by the authorities as defined in the Act and includes a Polytechnic;". (4) after clause (h), the following clause shall be inserted namely:- "(ha) 'polytechnic' means a polytechnic offering courses under Agricultural Sciences, Seed Technology, Agricultural Engineering & Technology and Home Science or any other course as may be prescribed by the authorities, as defined in the Act.". (5) after clause (i), the following clause shall be inserted namely,- (ia) 'recognized college or recognized institution' means a college or institution, as the case may be, recognized by the University under the conditions prescribed;".
Acharya N. G. Ranga Agricultural University (Amendment) Act, 2017_Section 4--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh In section 3 of the Principal Act, after sub-section (1), the following sub-section shall be inserted, namely:- "(1A) the University shall be a teaching, research, extension and affiliating University.".
Acharya N. G. Ranga Agricultural University (Amendment) Act, 2017_Section 5--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh In section 4 of the principal Act, after the words "Agriculture and Agricultural Production", the words "and to streamline the Agriculture Education, affiliate, recognize the College imparting Agricultural Sciences, Agricultural Engineering & Technology and Home Science Education" shall be added at the end.
Acharya N. G. Ranga Agricultural University (Amendment) Act, 2017_Section 6--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh In section 6 of the principal Act,- (1) after clause (a), the following clause shall be inserted, namely:- "(aa) to affiliate or recognise Colleges of Agriculture, Agricultural Engineering, Food Science & Technology and Home Science or Polytechnics and to withdraw such affiliation or recognition in the manner as may be prescribed.". (2) after clause (c), the following clauses shall be inserted, namely:- "(ca) to institute courses of study and to hold examinations for, and to confer diplomas to the Private Polytechnics in Agriculture, Seed Technology, Agriculture Engineering, Food Science & Technology and Home Science or any other course as may be prescribed by the authorities, affiliated by the University; "(cb) to institute courses of study and to hold examination for, and to confer Post Graduate/ Under Graduate degree to the Private Colleges in Agriculture, Agricultural Engineering, Food Science & Technology and Home Science or any other course as may be prescribed by the authorities, affiliated by the University.".
Acharya N. G. Ranga Agricultural University (Amendment) Act, 2017_Section 7--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh In section 8 of the principal Act, in sub-section (1), after the words "maintained", the words "or affiliated or recognised" shall be inserted.
Acharya N. G. Ranga Agricultural University (Amendment) Act, 2017_Section 8--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh In section 20 of the principal Act, in sub-section (1), after clause (i), the following clause shall be added, namely,- "(j) to affiliate or recognise colleges/educational Institutions of Agriculture, Agricultural Engineering, Food Science & Technology and Home Science or any other course as may be prescribed by the authorities, including conditional affiliation or recognition of the colleges or educational institutions and to withdraw such affiliation or recognition on the recommendation of the Academic Council.".
Acharya N. G. Ranga Agricultural University (Amendment) Act, 2017_Section 9--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh In section 22 of the principal Act, in sub-section (2), in clause (b), after sub-clause (ii), the following sub-clause shall be added, namely,- "(iii) for the grant of affiliation or recognition or withdrawal of such affiliation or recognition of colleges/education institutions.".
Acharya N. G. Ranga Agricultural University (Amendment) Act, 2017_Section 10--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh In section 40 of the principal Act, after sub-section (5), the following shall be added, namely,- "(6) affiliation or recognition including conditional affiliation or recognition of colleges and polytechnics and withdrawal of such affiliation and for all other matters necessary for carrying out all or any of the purposes of the Act.".
Acharya N. G. Ranga Agricultural University (Amendment) Act, 2017_Section 11--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh (1) Acharya N. G. Ranga Agricultural University (Amendment) Second Ordinance, 2016 is hereby repealed. (2) Notwithstanding such repeal, anything done or any action taken under the Principal Act, as amended by Acharya N. G. Ranga Agricultural University (Amendment) Second Ordinance, 2016, shall be deemed to have been done or taken under the Principal Act, as amended by the said Ordinance. (T. Narayana Reddy) Secretary to Government (FAC), Law Department. 
