Andhra Pradesh General Sales Tax (Second Amendment) Act, 1995_Section Preamble--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh An Act further to amend the Andhra Pradesh General Sales Tax Act, 1957. BE it enacted by the Legislative Assembly of the State of Andhra Pradesh in the Forty-sixth Year of the Republic of India as follows :-
Andhra Pradesh General Sales Tax (Second Amendment) Act, 1995_Section 1--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh (1) This Act may be called the Andhra Pradesh General Sales Tax (Second Amendment) Act, 1995. (2)(a) Clause 2, clause 3, items (i), (ii), (iii) and (iv) of clause 4 and clause 5 shall be deemed to have come into force with effect on and from the 1st day of July, 1994; and (b) item (v) of clause 4 shall be deemed it have come into force with effect on and from the 29th June, 1994.
Andhra Pradesh General Sales Tax (Second Amendment) Act, 1995_Section 2--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh In the Andhra Pradesh General Sales Tax Act, 1957 (hereinafter referred to as the principal Act), for section 5-A, the following section shall be substituted, namely :- "5-A. Levy of additional tax on turnover. - Every dealer who is liable to pay tax under sections 5, 5-C, 5-E, 6, 6-A and 6-C shall, in addition to the tax payable under those sections pay for each year a tax on his turnover liable to tax at the rate of, - (a) one half paise on every rupee where the total turnover for the year is three lakh rupees or more but less than fifty lakh rupees; (b) one paise on every rupee where the total turnover for the year is fifty lakh rupees or more but less than one crore rupees; and (c) one and a half paise on every rupee where the total turnover for the year is one crore rupees or more : Provided that in respect of declared goods the total rate of tax together with the rate of additional tax specified in this section shall not exceed four per cent : Provided further that there shall be no additional tax and surcharge on item 23 of the First Schedule."
Andhra Pradesh General Sales Tax (Second Amendment) Act, 1995_Section 3--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh In the principal Act, in section 6-B, in the explanation under sub-section (2), for the words "turnover tax", the words "additional tax" shall be substituted.
Andhra Pradesh General Sales Tax (Second Amendment) Act, 1995_Section 4--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh In the First Schedule to the principal Act, - (i) in the heading, for the words "Goods in respect of which tax is leviable", the words "Goods in respect of which single point tax is leviable" shall be substituted; (ii) in item 23, for the entry in column (3), the following shall be substituted, namely :- "3 paise in the rupee"; (iii) in item 37, for the entry in column (3), the following shall be substituted, namely :- "5 paise in the rupee "; (iv) in item 78, for the entry in column (3), the following shall be substituted, namely :- "4 paise in the rupee"; (v) after item 191, the following item and entries relating thereto shall be added, namely :- "192. Lottery tickets At the point of 8 paise in the rupee on first sale in the face value of the the State lottery ticket."
Andhra Pradesh General Sales Tax (Second Amendment) Act, 1995_Section 5--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh In the Second Schedule to the principal Act, in the heading, for the words "Goods in respect of which a purchase tax in leviable", the words "Goods in respect of which a single point purchase tax is leviable" shall be substituted.
Andhra Pradesh General Sales Tax (Second Amendment) Act, 1995_Section 6--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh The Andhra Pradesh General Sales Tax (Second Amendment) Ordinance, 1994 (See 1995 97 STC Statutes 3) is hereby repealed. 
