Andhra Pradesh Public Service Commission (Entrustment of additional functions with respect to the services of Universities) Act, 2017_Section Preamble--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh An Act to provide for the Exercise of Certain Additional Functions by the Andhra Pradesh Public Service Commission with Respect to the Services of the Universities. Be it enacted by the Legislature of State of Andhra Pradesh in the] Sixty-eighth year of the Republic of India as follows:
Andhra Pradesh Public Service Commission (Entrustment of additional functions with respect to the services of Universities) Act, 2017_Section 1--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh (1) This Act may be called the Andhra Pradesh Public Service Commission (Entrustment of additional functions with respect to the services of Universities) Act, 2017. (2) It extends the whole State of Andhra Pradesh. (3) It shall come into force on such date as the State Government may, by notification, appoint.
Andhra Pradesh Public Service Commission (Entrustment of additional functions with respect to the services of Universities) Act, 2017_Section 2--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires:- (1) "Administrative and Ministerial Staff means the non-teaching staff of the University other than Teachers of the University as defined in the respective Acts of the Universities specified in the Schedule; (2) "APPSC" means the Andhra Pradesh Public Service Commission constituted under Article 315 of the Constitution of India; (3) Executive Council / Board of Management / Executive Board means the Executive Council / Board of Management / Executive Board as defined in the Acts of Universities specified in the Schedule; (4) "Government" means the Government of Andhra Pradesh; (5) "Teachers of the University" means Teachers of the University as specified in the schedule; (6) "Written Test" includes descriptive type examination and/or objective type examination and/or computer based examination and/or interview/oral test/ personality test.
Andhra Pradesh Public Service Commission (Entrustment of additional functions with respect to the services of Universities) Act, 2017_Section 3--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh Notwithstanding anything contained in the Acts of Universities specified in the Schedule and the Statutes, Ordinances, Regulations and rules made there under, the Andhra Pradesh Public Service Commission shall conduct the Written Test, in addition to the minimum norms prescribed in the Acts of the respective Universities, for recruitment of Teachers and Administrative/Ministerial Staff of the University on the decision of the Executive Council / Board of Management / Executive Board of the University concerned by entering into a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with the University concerned: Provided that where same category of posts in the same subject are requisitioned for recruitment by different Universities, a common written test shall be conducted for all such posts.
Andhra Pradesh Public Service Commission (Entrustment of additional functions with respect to the services of Universities) Act, 2017_Section 4--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh If any difficulty arises in giving effect to the provisions of this Act, the Government, may, by order, make such provision not inconsistent with the provisions of this Act as may appear to them necessary or expedient for removing the difficulty.
Andhra Pradesh Public Service Commission (Entrustment of additional functions with respect to the services of Universities) Act, 2017_Section Sch.--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh (i) Andhra University (AU), Sri Venkateswara University (SVU), Sri Krishnadevaraya University (SKU), Acharya Nagarjuna University (ANU), Adikavi Nannayya University (AKNU), Yogi Vemana University (YVU), Dr. B.R. Ambedkar University (Dr. BRAU), Krishna University (KrU), Vikrama Simhapuri University (VS U), Rayalaseema University (RU) established under Section 3 of the Andhra Pradesh Universities Act, 1991. (ii) Damodaram Sanjivayya National Law University established under Damodaram Sanjivayya National Law University Act, 2008. (iii) Dr. NTR University of Health Sciences established under University of Health Sciences Act, 1986. (iv) Dr. YSR Horticultural University established under Section 3 University Act, 2007. (v) Dravidian University established under Section 3 of the Dravidian University Act, 1997. (vi) Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University at Ananthapuramu and Kaki nada established under Section 3 of the Jawaharlal Nehru Technological Universities Act, 2008. (vii) Rajiv Gandhi University of Knowledge Technologies at Idupulapaya and Nuzvidu established under Section 3 of the Rajiv Gandhi University of Knowledge Technologies Act, 2008. (viii) Sri Padmavathi Manila Viswavidyalayam established under Section 3 of Sri Padmavathi Manila Viswavidyalayam Act, 1983. (ix) Sri Venkateswara Institute of Medical Sciences established under Venkateswara Institute of Medical Sciences Act, 1995. (x) Sri Venkateswara Veterinary University established under Section 3 of Sri Venkateswara Veterinary University Act, 2005. (xi) Acharya N.G. Ranga Agricultural University established under Section N.G Ranga Agricultural University Act, 1963. (xii) Moulvi Abdul Haq Urdu University established under Section 3 of the Moulvi Abdul Haq Urdu University Act, 2016. (xiii) Sri Venkateswara Vedic University established under Section University Act, 2006. (Duppala Venkataramana) Secretary to Government, Legal and Legislative Affairs & Law Department. 
