Andhra Pradesh General Sales Tax (Amendment) Act, 1998_Section Preamble--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh An Act Further to Amend the Andhra Pradesh General Sales Tax Act, 1957. Be it enacted by the Legislative Assembly of the State of Andhra Pradesh, in the Forty-eighth Year of the Republic, of India, as follows:-
Andhra Pradesh General Sales Tax (Amendment) Act, 1998_Section 1--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh (1) This Act may be called the Andhra Pradesh General Sales Tax (Amendment) Act, 1998.1 (2) It shall come into force on such date as the state government may, by notification; appoint Received the assent of the governor on the 01-01-1998
Andhra Pradesh General Sales Tax (Amendment) Act, 1998_Section 2--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh In the Andhra Pradesh General sales Tax Act, 1957(hereinafter referred to as the principal Act), after the proviso sub-section (1) of section 5G, the following proviso shall be added namely:- "Provided further that if a dealer who executes a works contract of construction of apartments or buildings so opts,. the assessing authority of the area, may accept, by way of composition an Amount calculated at the rate of rupees 4/-(Rupees four only)per square foot the constructed area.
Andhra Pradesh General Sales Tax (Amendment) Act, 1998_Section 3--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh In section 13-A of the principal Act for the words a sum not exceeding rupees, five hundred", the words a sum calculated at the rate of one hundred rupees. for every day , of delay in filing return shall be substituted.
Andhra Pradesh General Sales Tax (Amendment) Act, 1998_Section 4--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh In section 14-E of the principal Act,- (i) for sub-section (1) , the following sub-section shall be substituted, namely:- "(1) Any dealer whose turnover in a year does not exceed rupees ten lakhs and liable to file a return under section 15, shall submit to the assessing authority, within sixty days from the close of the year, a return of self-assessment in such form and in such manner as may be prescribed and in such return he shall assess the turnover at all places of his business during the year and tax due thereon correctly; Provided that any return filed after the expiry of sixty days from the close of the year may be received if the return is accompanied by a treasury receipt or cheque or demand draft for payment of a penalty equivalent to the amount calculated at the rate of rupees one hundred for every day of delay." (ii) sub-section (2) shall be omitted; (iii) in sub-sections (3), (4) and (5) for the words "under sub-section (2) the words "under sub-section (1)" shall be substituted (iv) sub-sections (3),(4), (5) and (6) shall be renumbered as sub-sections (2), (3), (4) and (5) respectively; and (v) sub-section (7) shall.be omitted.
Andhra Pradesh General Sales Tax (Amendment) Act, 1998_Section 5--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh In section 15 of the principal Act, in sub-section (4), for clauses (a) and (b) the following clauses, shall be substituted, namely:- "(a) an amount equal to thirty per cent (30%) of the tax where the dealer has charged the tax from the purchaser; and (b) in any other case, an amount equivalent to twenty per cent (20%) of the amount of tax."
Andhra Pradesh General Sales Tax (Amendment) Act, 1998_Section 6--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh In section 16 of the principal Act,' (i) in sub-section (1), after the second proviso, the following proviso shall be added, namely:- "Provided also that the assessing authority shall require the dealer to pay the tax due as per the return filed by him in case such return is not accompanied by the proof of payments of tax and it shall not be necessary to give minimum time of fifteen days for payment of tax as mentioned in this section."; (ii) for sub-section (3) the followin9 sub-section shall be substituted, namely:- "(3) (a) If the tax assessed or penalty levied or any other amount due under this Act or any installment thereof is not paid by any dealer or other person within the time specified therefor in the notice of demand or in the order permitting the, payment in installments or in any other provision of the Act or the rules made thereunder, the dealer or other person shall pay, in addition to the amount of such tax, penalty, installment or any other amount, interest calculated per every one, hundred rupees or part thereof at the rates mentioned below for the period of delay from the due date or date specified for its payments (i) Within 30 days of delay . at. the rate of 18% of the tax due. (ii) above 30 days but below 90 days of delay at the rate of 24% of the tax due. (iii) above 90 days but below 365 days of delay at the rate of 30% of the tax due (iv) for delay exceeding one year. at a flat rate of 36% of the tax due. (b) If any dealer fails to pay tax along with the return due to be filed by him interest calculated at the rates mentioned in sub-clause (a) of this sub-section shall be levied, for the period of delay commencing from the date on which the return is due to be filed by that dealer to the assessing authority. (c). The dealer shall calculate the interest at the rates mentioned above for the period of delay and shall remit it along with the tax due to be paid by him. (d) If any new dealer fails to file a return he shall be liable to pay interest on the amount of tax due or as assessed by the assessing authority. for the period of delay commencing from the date on which the return is due to be filed by him."
Andhra Pradesh General Sales Tax (Amendment) Act, 1998_Section 7--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh In the First Schedule to the principal Act, in item 32, in column (2), the word "sand" shall be omitted. (K.M. Nagabhushana Rao), Secretary to Government, Legislative Affairs & Justice (I/c), Law Department. 
