Andhra Pradesh Co-operative Societies (Amendment) Act, 1990_Section Preamble--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh An Act further to amend the Andhra Pradesh Co-operative Societies Act, 1964. Be it enacted by the Legislative Assembly of the State of Andhra Pradesh in the Forty-first Year of the Republic of India, as follows:-
Andhra Pradesh Co-operative Societies (Amendment) Act, 1990_Section 1--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh (1) This Act may be called the Andhra Pradesh Co-operative Societies (Amendment) Act, 19901 . (2) It shall be deemed to have come into force on the 30th June, 1990. Received the assent of the Governor on the 27th September, 1990
Andhra Pradesh Co-operative Societies (Amendment) Act, 1990_Section 2--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh In the Andhra Pradesh Co-operative Societies Act, 1964 (hereinafter referred to as the principal Act) in section 31 in sub-section (2), in clause (a), for the words "five years", the words "three years", shall be substituted.
Andhra Pradesh Co-operative Societies (Amendment) Act, 1990_Section 3--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh Section 32A of the principal Act, shall be renumbered as section 32B and before the section as so renumbered the following section shall be inserted, namely:- "32A. Ceased Committees not to have ask right to continue as person-in-charge:-Notwithstanding anything contained in clause (a) of sub-section (7) of Section 32, or in any Judgment, decree or order of any court, tribunal or other authority, no Office-bearer or member of a committee who ceased to hold office either by efflux of time or otherwise shall have a right to be appointed as person-in-charge or persons-in-charge."
Andhra Pradesh Co-operative Societies (Amendment) Act, 1990_Section 4--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh (1) Every Committee constituted before the commencement of the Andhra Pradesh Co-operative Societies (Amendment) Act, 1990, and has completed three years of term of office on or before such commencement shall cease to hold office on such commencement and every such Committee which completes three years of term of office after such commencement shall cease to hold office on such completion. (2) Notwithstanding anything in clause (b) of sub-section (2) of section 31 of the principal Act, elections to such societies whose Committees cease to hold office under sub-section (1) shall be held by the Registrar within a period of six months from the date of commencement of this Act, in accordance with the provisions of the principal Act and the rules made there under: Provided that the Government may, by order and for reasons to be recorded in writing, extend from time to time, the period of six months aforesaid; so however, the total period shall not exceed one year from the date of commencement of this Act.
Andhra Pradesh Co-operative Societies (Amendment) Act, 1990_Section 5--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh Notwithstanding anything in any Judgment, decree or order of any court, tribunal or other authority to the contrary, all orders or proceedings issued either by the Government or by the Registrar in pursuance of the Andhra Pradesh Co-operative Societies (Amendment) Ordinance, 1990 and any action taken in pursuance thereof shall be and deemed always to have been valid and accordingly no suit or other proceeding shall be maintained or- continued in any court against the State Government, Registrar or any person or authority whatsoever.
Andhra Pradesh Co-operative Societies (Amendment) Act, 1990_Section 6--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh The Andhra Pradesh Co-operative Societies (Amendment) Ordinance, 1990 is hereby repealed. (P.V. Vidyasagar), Secretary to Government, Law and Legislative Affairs, Law Department. 
