Andhra Pradesh General Sales Tax (Second Amendment) Act, 1997_Section Preamble--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh An Act further to amend the Andhra Pradesh General Sales Tax Act, 1957. Be it enacted by the Legislative Assembly of the State of Andhra Pradesh in the Forty-eighth Year of the Republic of India as follows:-
Andhra Pradesh General Sales Tax (Second Amendment) Act, 1997_Section 1--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh (1) This Act may be called the Andhra Pradesh General Sales Tax (Second Amendment) Act, 1997.1 (2)(i) Clauses, (i),(ii), (iv), and (v) of Section 2; and Section 4 shall be deemed to have come into force on the 12th May, 1997; (ii) Clause (iii) of Section 2 and Section 3 shall be deemed to have come, into force on the 18th March 1997. Received the assent of the Governor on 9th December 1997
Andhra Pradesh General Sales Tax (Second Amendment) Act, 1997_Section 2--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh In the First Schedule to the principal Act, - (i) for item 19 and the entries relating thereto the following item and entries shall be substituted, namely:- 19. (i) Packing material that is to say Bottles of all types whether made of Glass, - Plastic or any fibre or any other material,-  (a) when sold with , out contents At the point of first sale in the State. 4 paise in the rupee. (b) when sold containing contents. -Do- The rate at which the content, is liable to tax. (ii) HDPE Woven Sacks High density Polythyleae Poly propylane (HDPE/FF) Woven Sacks, polythene bags and plastic bags,  (a) when sold without contents. -DO- 4 paise in the rupee. (b) when sold containing contents. At the point of first sale in the State, The rate at 'which' the content is liable to tax. (iii) Gunnies  (a) when sold with- out contents. -Do- 4 paise in the rupee. (b) when sold containing contents. -Do- The rate at which the content is liable to tax. (iv) All type of containers not mentioned above,-  (a) When sold without contents. -Do- 4 paise in the rupee. (b) when sold containing contents. -Do- The rate at which the content Is liable to tax.; (ii) item 157 and the entries relating thereto shall be omitted; (iii) item 174 and the entries relating thereto shall be omitted; (iv) in item 187 in column 2, sub-item 5 and the entiles, relating thereto shall be omitted: (v) item 188 and the entries relating thereto shall be omitted.
Andhra Pradesh General Sales Tax (Second Amendment) Act, 1997_Section 3--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh In the Third schedule to the principal Act, after item 22, the following item and the entries relating thereto shall be added, namely:- 23 PVC cloth, Waterproof cloth, Tarapaulin and Rexine. At the point of first sale in the State 4 paise in the rupee.
Andhra Pradesh General Sales Tax (Second Amendment) Act, 1997_Section 4--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh In the Sixth Schedule to the principal Act (i) in item 1, in column(2) the following shall be substituted, namely:- "All liquors, bottled and packed as per the provisions of the Andhra Pradesh Excise Act but excluding toddy and arrack" (ii) in item 18 in column(2) for sub- item(v) the following shall be substituted, namely:— "(v) other Glassware including Tableware but excluding bottles." (iii) the explanations -occur after, the proviso shall be numbered as Explanation, Explanation II and Explanation III and after as so renumbered, Explanation I shall be substituted as follows:- Explanation-I (a) For the purpose of entry 1 in this Schedule when any distillery or brewery or any dealer sells liquor to Andhra Pradesh Beverages Corporation Limited, sales by Andhra Pradesh Beverages Corporation Limited shall be seemed to be the first sale. (b) Point of last sale Shall mean sale of liquor to a person by a dealer who purchased liquor from Andhra Pradesh Beverages Corporation Limited: Provided that the turnover of any distillery or brewery of any dealer in respect of sale of liquor to Andhra Pradesh Beverages Corporation Limited shall he exempt from payment of tax. (G. Bhavani Prasad), Secretary to Government, Legislative Affairs & Justice, Law Department. 
