Andhra Pradesh General Sales Tax (Amendment) Act, 1999_Section Preamble--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh An Act further to amend the Andhra Pradesh General Sales Tax Act, 1957. BE it enacted by the Legislative Assembly of the State of Andhra Pradesh in the Fiftieth Year of the Republic of India as follows :-
Andhra Pradesh General Sales Tax (Amendment) Act, 1999_Section 1--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh (1) This Act may be called the Andhra Pradesh General Sales Tax (Amendment) Act, 1999. (2)(i) Clauses 2, 3 and 4 shall come into force on such date as the State Government may, by notification, appoint; and (ii) in clause (5) in the entry, in column 2, the item "Palm oil", shall be deemed to have come into force with effect from 12th June, 1998 and the item "R.B.D., Palmolene oil" shall be deemed to have come into force with the effect from 23rd June, 1998.
Andhra Pradesh General Sales Tax (Amendment) Act, 1999_Section 2--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh In the Andhra Pradesh General Sales Tax Act, 1957 (hereinafter referred to as the principal Act), after section 4, the following section shall be inserted, namely :- 4A.Powers of subordinate officers to be exercised by higher authorities-The powers conferred by this Act and Rules made thereunder on any of the officers appointed under section 4 of this Act may also be exercised by any of the officers superior to the officers so empowered, subject to any instructions issued by the Commissioner of Commercial Taxes in his regard."
Andhra Pradesh General Sales Tax (Amendment) Act, 1999_Section 3--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh After section 16-B of the principal Act, the following section shall be inserted, namely :- 16-C. "Liability under this Act to be the first charge- Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in any law for the time being in force, any amount of tax, penalty, interest and any other sum if any, payable by a dealer or any other person under this Act, shall be the first charge on the property of dealer, or such person".
Andhra Pradesh General Sales Tax (Amendment) Act, 1999_Section 4--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh In section 20 of the principal Act, in sub-section (2), for the words "Deputy Commissioner" the words "Deputy Commissioner, Assistant Commissioner", shall be substituted.
Andhra Pradesh General Sales Tax (Amendment) Act, 1999_Section 5--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh In the First Schedule to the principal Act, after item 24D, the following item and the entry relating thereto shall be inserted, namely :- "24E. Palm oil, including At the point of first 4 paise in the R.B.D., Palmolene oil. sale in the State. rupee." 
