Andhra Pradesh Urban Areas (Development Amendment) Act, 1986_Section Preamble--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh An Act further to amend the Andhra Pradesh Urban Areas (Development) Act, 1975. Be it enacted by the Legislative Assembly of the State of Andhra Pradesh in the Thirty-seventh Year of the Republic of India as follows :-
Andhra Pradesh Urban Areas (Development Amendment) Act, 1986_Section 1--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh (1) This Act may be called the Andhra Pradesh Urban Areas (Development) Amendment Act, 1986.1 (2) It shall come into force on such date as the State Government may, by notification, in the Andhra Pradesh Gazette, appoint. Received the assent of the Governor on the 16th August, 1986.
Andhra Pradesh Urban Areas (Development Amendment) Act, 1986_Section 2--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh In the Andhra Pradesh Urban Areas (Development) Act, 1975 (hereinafter referred to as the principal Act), for section 4, the following sections shall be substituted, namely :- "4. Appointment of Secretary, Chief Accounts Officer, Town Planner and Engineer - (1) For any authority, the Government may, sanction a post or Secretary, a post of Chief Accounts Officer, a post of Town Planner and a post of Engineer who shall exercise such powers and perform such functions as may be prescribed or as may be determined by regulations made by the authority in this behalf or delegated to them by the Authority or the Chairman. (2) Before sanctioning any post under subsection (1), the Government shall consult the authority concerned. (3) All the appointments to posts sanctioned under sub-section (1) shall be made by the Government. (4) All the officers appointed, under sub-section (3) shall, save as otherwise provided in the rules relating to the discipline and conducts of those officers be deemed, for all purposes, as officers of the Authority and shall, in the exercise of the powers and discharge of the duties under this Act, be subject to such control and direction of the Vice-Chairman as may be prescribed. (5) The Government shall pay out of the Consolidated Fund of the State, the salaries, allowances, leave allowances, pension and contribution, if any, towards the provident fund or pension-cum-provident fund of every officer appointed by the Government under sub-section (3). 4A.Governments power to regulate the methods of recruitment, conditions of service, etc., of officers appointed under section 4:-(1) The Government shall have power- (a) to make rules to regulate the classification, methods of recruitment, conditions of service, pay and allowances and disciplinary conduct of the officer appointed under section 4. (b) to recover from the Authority concerned the whole of the salary and allowances paid to any such officer and such contribution towards such officer paid by the Government under sub-section (5) of section 4. (2) The Government may at any time withdraw any officer appointed under section 4 and appoint another in his place. 4B.Constitution of a urban Development authorities service for the State for any class or officers and employees of the Authorities:-(1) Notwithstanding anything in this Act, or the rules made thereunder, the Government may, after consulting all the authorities by Notification constitute any class of officers or employees of the Authorities into a Urban development Authorities Service for this State. (2) Upon the issue of a notification under subsection (1) of the Act, Government shall have power to make rules to regulate the classification, methods of recruitment, conditions of service, pay and allowances and discipline, and conduct of the officers and employees of the Urban Development Authorities, service thereby constituted and such rules may vest jurisdiction in relation to such service in the Government or in such other Authority or Authorities as may be prescribed therein"
Andhra Pradesh Urban Areas (Development Amendment) Act, 1986_Section 3--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh In section 59 of the principal Act, in subsection (1), clause (d) shall be omitted. 
