Andhra Pradesh Advocates' Clerks' Welfare Fund (Amendment) Act, 2011_Section Preamble--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh An Act further to amend the Andhra Pradesh Advocates' Clerks' Welfare Fund Act, 1992 Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Andhra Pradesh in the Sixty-second year of the Republic of India as follows:-
Andhra Pradesh Advocates' Clerks' Welfare Fund (Amendment) Act, 2011_Section 1--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh (1) This Act may be called the Andhra Pradesh Advocates' Clerks' Welfare Fund (Amendment) Act, 2011. (2) It shall be deemed to have come into force with effect on and from the 23rd June, 2011.
Andhra Pradesh Advocates' Clerks' Welfare Fund (Amendment) Act, 2011_Section 2--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh In the Andhra Pradesh Advocates' Clerks' Welfare Fund Act, 1992 (herein after referred to as the principal Act), for Section 12, along with the marginal heading thereto, the following new Section shall be substituted, namely,- 12. Printing, Custody and Distribution of the Andhra Pradesh Advocates' and their Clerks' Welfare Fund Stamp:- (1) There shall be printed or cause to be printed by the Commissioner & Inspector General of Registration and Stamps, Andhra Pradesh, Hyderabad, in such manner as may be prescribed a combined stamp superscribed in Telugu language as "Nyayavadula mariyu vari Gumasthala Samkshema Nidhi" each of the value of fifty rupees through Government Security Printing Press, on an indent placed by the Andhra Pradesh Advocates' Welfare Fund Committee in such form as may be prescribed. (2) Every Vakalat/Memo of Appearance filed before any Court, Authority, Tribunal, Forum or Commission including every Vakalat/Memo of Appearance filed by all the Law Officers appearing for the State and Central Governments and their instrumentalities shall be affixed with the Stamp worth of rupees fifty and no such Vakalat/Memo of Appearance shall be valid or accepted without such Stamp. (3) The person or authority receiving a Vakalat with such stamp shall forthwith, effect cancellation of the stamp by punching out the same. (4) The custody and distribution of stamps shall be with the Andhra Pradesh Advocates' Welfare Fund Committee and the sale of the stamps shall be through recognized Bar Associations.
Andhra Pradesh Advocates' Clerks' Welfare Fund (Amendment) Act, 2011_Section 3--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh In the principal Act, for Section 12-A, the following new section shall be substituted, namely, - 12-A. "Apportionment of sale proceeds and the costs of printing of stamps:- (1) Notwithstanding anything contained in Section 12, out of the sale proceeds of the stamps worth of Rs. 50/-, a sum of Rs. 43/- shall be credited to the Andhra Pradesh Advocates' Welfare Fund and Rs. 7/- shall be credited to the Andhra Pradesh Advocates' Clerks' Welfare Fund and where such a stamp is affixed to Vakalat/ Memo of appearance, the provisions sub-section (2) of Section 12 shall be deemed to have been complied with. (2) The cost of the printing of the stamps under sub-section (1) of Section 12 shall be apportioned between the Andhra Pradesh Advocates' Clerks' Welfare Fund constituted under Section 3 of the Andhra Pradesh Advocates' Clerks' Welfare Fund Act, 1992 and the Andhra Pradesh Advocates' Welfare Fund constituted under Section 3 of the Andhra Pradesh Advocates' Welfare Fund Act, 1987 in such manner as may be prescribed."
Andhra Pradesh Advocates' Clerks' Welfare Fund (Amendment) Act, 2011_Section 4--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh The Andhra Pradesh Advocates' Clerks' Welfare Fund (Amendment) Ordinance 2011 is hereby repealed. 
