Andhra Pradesh Public Employment (Regulation of Age of Superannuation) (Amendment) Act, 2014_Section Preamble--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh An Act further to amend the Andhra Pradesh Public Employment (Regulation of Age of Superannuation) Act, 1984. Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Andhra Pradesh in the Sixty-fifth Year of the Republic of India, as follows:-
Andhra Pradesh Public Employment (Regulation of Age of Superannuation) (Amendment) Act, 2014_Section 1--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh (1) This Act may be called the Andhra Pradesh Public Employment (Regulation of Age of Superannuation) (Amendment) Act, 2014. (2) It shall be deemed to have come into force on the 2nd June, 2014.
Andhra Pradesh Public Employment (Regulation of Age of Superannuation) (Amendment) Act, 2014_Section 2--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh In the Andhra Pradesh Public Employment (Regulation of Age of Superannuation) Act, 1984, (hereinafter referred to as principal Act) in section 3,- (1) for sub-section (1), the following sub-section shall be substituted, namely:- "(1) Every Government employee shall retire from service on the afternoon of the last day of the month in which he attains the age of sixty years." (2) In sub-section (3), under Explanation II, in clause (a), for the words "fifty eight or sixty years, as the case may be", the words "sixty years" shall be substituted. (3) in sub-section (4), in clause (a), for the words "fifty eight years", the words "sixty years", shall be substituted.
Andhra Pradesh Public Employment (Regulation of Age of Superannuation) (Amendment) Act, 2014_Section 3--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh In the principal Act, after section 3 so amended, the following new section shall be inserted, namely:- 3A. "Savings.-Subject to the provisions of section 3,- (1) A Government employee belonging to the State Cadre/Multi-zonal Cadre and who by general or specific order of the Government of India under sub-section (1) of section 77 of the Andhra Pradesh Reorganisation Act, 2014, and serving provisionally in connection with the affairs of the State of Telangana, and if he is finally allotted to the State of Andhra Pradesh by the Government of India under sub-section (2) of section 77 of the said Act, 2014 shall be deemed to be continuously serving in the State of Andhra Pradesh. (2) A Government employee belonging to the State Cadre / Multi-zonal Cadre falling in the territories of both the State of Andhra Pradesh and the State of Telangana, who by a general or a specific order of the Government of India under sub-section (1) of section 77 of the said Act, 2014, is serving provisionally and retires on attaining the age of fifty eight years and on his final allotment, subsequently to the State of Andhra Pradesh by the Government of India under sub-section (2) of section 77 of the said Act but before attaining the age of sixty years, shall be re-inducted into service / post with effect from the date of his final allotment to the State of Andhra Pradesh without break in service: Provided that an employee who attained the age of sixty years before the final allotment to the State of Andhra Pradesh by the Government of India, the service rendered in the State of Telangana till the date of his retirement shall be considered notionally as if, he has rendered service in the State of Andhra Pradesh for the purpose of calculation of his pensionary benefits. (3) The service conditions of the employee of State Cadre / Multi-zonal Cadre working provisionally in the State of Andhra Pradesh and finally allotted by the Government of India under sub-section (2) of section 77 of the said Act, 2014 to the State of Telangana shall be governed by the relevant laws / rules of the State of Telangana on such final allotment.". (T. Narayana Reddy) Secretary to Government (I/c), Law Department. 
