Andhra Pradesh Municipal Laws (Second Amendment) Act, 2011_Section Preamble--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh An Act Further to amend the Andhra Pradesh Municipalities Act, 1965 and the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation Act, 1955 Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Andhra Pradesh in the Sixty Second Year of the Republic of India as follows:-
Andhra Pradesh Municipal Laws (Second Amendment) Act, 2011_Section 1--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh (1) This Act may be called the Andhra Pradesh Municipal Laws (Second Amendment) Act, 2011. (2) It shall come into force with immediate effect.
Andhra Pradesh Municipal Laws (Second Amendment) Act, 2011_Section 2--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh In the Andhra Pradesh Municipalities Act, 1965,- (1) after Section 127, the following shall be inserted, 127-A. "Preparation of annual accounts:- (1) The Commissioner shall prepare annual accounts in such form with such information, as may be prescribed. In particular, the annual accounts comprises the financial statements consisting of income and expenditure, assets and liabilities, and receipts and payments. (2) The annual accounts shall be prepared within such time as may be prescribed and be placed before the Council for approval. (3) On approval by the Council, the annual accounts shall be forwarded to the auditor appointed by the Government for audit."; (2) In Section 128, for the words "of accounts of receipts and expenditure", the words "to audit the annual accounts" shall be substituted.
Andhra Pradesh Municipal Laws (Second Amendment) Act, 2011_Section 3--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh In the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation Act, 1955,- (1) for Section 179 including sub-heading, the following shall be substituted, namely:- 179. "Keeping of Accounts:- Subject to the provisions of this Act. Accounts of income and expenditure, assets and liabilities, and receipts and payments of the Corporation shall be kept in such manner and in such form as may be specified."; (2) Amendment of Section 180:- In Section 180,- (i) in sub-section (1), for the words, "amounts of receipts and disbursements credited and debited to the", the words "amounts of income and expenditure, assets and liabilities, and receipts and payments of the" shall be substituted; (ii) after sub-section (3), the following shall be added, namely:- "(4) The report and the statement, after examination by the Standing Committee shall also be laid before the Corporation for its approval.".
Andhra Pradesh Municipal Laws (Second Amendment) Act, 2011_Section 4--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh The amendments made to the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation Act, 1955 by Section 3 shall extend to, and shall apply also, to the Visakhapatnam and Vijayawada Municipal Corporations and to any other Municipal Corporation constituted under the provisions of the Andhra Pradesh Municipal Corporations Act, 1994. 
