Andhra Pradesh Districts (Formation) Act, 1974_Section Preamble--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh An Act to provide for the formation of districts in the State of Andhra Pradesh and for alteration of areas or boundaries of the districts in the interests of better administration and development of the areas comprised there in and for matters connected therewith. Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Andhra Pradesh in the Twenty-fifth Year of the Republic of India as follows:-
Andhra Pradesh Districts (Formation) Act, 1974_Section 1--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh (1) This Act may be called the Andhra Pradesh Districts (Formation) Act, 1974. (2) It extends to the whole of the State of Andhra Pradesh. (3) It shall come into force on such date as the State Government may, by notification in the Andhra Pradesh Gazette, appoint.
Andhra Pradesh Districts (Formation) Act, 1974_Section 2--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires,- (a) "Commissioner of Land Revenue" means the Commissioner of Land Revenue for Andhra Pradesh; (b) "Government" means the State Government; (c) "notification" means a notification published in the Andhra Pradesh Gazette and the expression 'notify' or 'notified' shall be constructed accordingly; (d) "prescribed" means prescribed by rules made under this Act ; (e) "revenue division 1 [Mandal] and village" means respectively any area which is notified as a revenue division, 2 [Mandal] or village under this Act, Subs, for the words "Taluk, Firka" by A.P. Act 14 of 1985 (w.e.f. 11-1-1984) Subs, for the words "Taluk, Firka" by A.P. Act 14 of 1985 (w.e.f. 11-1-1984)
Andhra Pradesh Districts (Formation) Act, 1974_Section 3--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh (1) The Government may, by notification, from time to time, for the purposes of revenue administration, divide the State into such districts with such limits as may be specified therein; and each district shall consist of such revenue divisions and each revenue division shall consist of such 1 [Mandals] and each Mandal shall consist of such villages as the Government may, by notification from time to time, specify in this behalf. (2) The Government may, in the interests of better administration and development of the areas, by notification, from time to time, and with effect on and from such date as may be specified therein- (a) from a new district, revenue division ' [or Mandal] by separation of area from any district, revenue division, '[or Mandal] or by uniting two or more districts, revenue divisions, l[or Mandal] or parts thereof or by uniting any area to a district, revenue division, 2 [or Mandal 3 [or Mandal] or part there increase the area of any district, revenue division, 4 [or Mandal]; diminish the area of any district, revenue division 5 [or Mandal]; alter the boundaries of any district, revenue division, 6 [or Mandal;] (alter the name of any district, revenue division 7 [or Mandal]; [Proviso Repealed by Act No 14 of 1985]. (3) The areas, boundaries and names, of the districts, revenue divisions, taluks, firks and villages in the State existing at the (commencement of this Act shall be deemed to have been notified under sub-section (1) and shall continue until they are altered) by the Government or the Board of Revenue, as the case may be. (4) The Board of Revenue may, in the interests of better administration and development o f the areas and subject to such rules as may be prescribed, by notification, group or amalgamate any two or more revenue villages or portions thereof so as to form a single new revenue village or divide any revenue village into two or more revenue villages, or increase or diminish the area of any revenue village, or alter the boundaries or name of any revenue village. (5) Before issuing any notification under this section, the Government or the Board of Revenue, as the case may be, shall publish in such manner as ma y be prescribed, the proposal s inviting objections or suggestions thereon from the persons residing within the district, revenue division, 8 [Mandal] or village who are likely to b e affected thereby within such period as may be specified therein, and shall take into consideration the objections or suggestions, if any, received. (6) Any notification under this sec t ion may contain such supplemental incidental and consequential provisions (including pro visions as to adaptation and construction of laws) as the Government or the 9 Commissioner of land Revenue] as the case may be, may deem necessary. N.B.: Board of Revenue was abolished and in its place three posts of Commissioners are created. Commission of Land Revenue, Commissioner of Survey and settlement and Commissioner of Land reforms. Subs, for the words "Taluk, Firka" by A.P. Act 14 of 1985 (w.e.f. 11-1-1984) Subs, by Act 14 of 1985. Subs, by Act 14 of 1985. Subs, for the words "Taluk, Firka" by A.P. Act 1985 (w.e.f. 11-1-1984). Subs, for the words "Taluk, Firka" by A.P. Act 1985 (w.e.f. 11-1-1984). Subs, for the words "Taluk, Firka" by A.P. Act 1985 (w.e.f. 11-1-1984). Subs, for the words "Taluk, Firka" by A.P. Act 1985 (w.e.f. 11-1-1984). Subs, for the words "Taluk, Firka" by A.P. Act 1985 (w.e.f. 11-1-1984). Subs, by Act 14 of 1985. 
