Andhra Pradesh Survey and Boundaries (Extension and Amendment) Act, 1958_Section Preamble--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh An Act to extend 1 [the Andhra Pradesh Survey and Boundaries Act, 1923], to certain areas in the State of Andhra Pradesh and further to amend it in its application to that State. Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Andhra Pradesh in the Ninth Year’ of the Republic of India as follows :- Substituted by for the original short title by the First Schedule to the A. P. Laws (Amendment of Short Titles) Act, 1961 (A. P. Act IX of 1961.
Andhra Pradesh Survey and Boundaries (Extension and Amendment) Act, 1958_Section 1--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh (1) This Act may be called [the Andhra Pradesh Survey and Boundaries (Extension and Amendment) Act, 1958].1 (2) It extends to the whole of the State of Andhra Pradesh. (3) This section shall come into force at once and the remaining provisions shall come into force on such dates as the State Government may, by notification in the Andhra Pradesh Gazette, appoint.2 Substituted by for the original short title by the First Schedule to the A. P. Laws (Amendment of Short Titles) Act, 1961 (A. P. Act IX of 1961. Came into force on the 1st August, 1959
Andhra Pradesh Survey and Boundaries (Extension and Amendment) Act, 1958_Section 2--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires,- (a) "Andhra Area" means the territories of the State of Andhra Pradesh which, immediately before the 1st November, 1956, were comprised in the State of Andhra; (b) "Transferred Territories" means the territories specified in sub-section (1) of Section 3 of the State Re-organisation Act, 1956 (Central Act 37 of 1956).
Andhra Pradesh Survey and Boundaries (Extension and Amendment) Act, 1958_Section 3--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh [The Andhra Pradesh Survey and Boundaries Act, 1923 (Act VIII of 1923), as in force at the commencement of this Act in the Andhra Area (hereinafter referred to as the principal Act), as amended by Sections 4 and 5 is hereby extended to, and shall be in force in the transferred territories.1 Substituted by for the original short title by the First Schedule to the A. P. Laws (Amendment of Short Titles) Act, 1961 (A. P. Act IX of 1961.)
Andhra Pradesh Survey and Boundaries (Extension and Amendment) Act, 1958_Section 4--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh [Amendments made by Section 4-5 have been incorporated in the Andhra Pradesh Survey and Boundaries Act, 1923 (Act VIII of 1923)].
Andhra Pradesh Survey and Boundaries (Extension and Amendment) Act, 1958_Section 5--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh [Amendments made by Section 4-5 have been incorporated in the Andhra Pradesh Survey and Boundaries Act, 1923 (Act VIII of 1923)].
Andhra Pradesh Survey and Boundaries (Extension and Amendment) Act, 1958_Section 6--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh (1) If any difficulty arises in giving effect to the provisions of this Act, or of the principal Act as extended by this Act, in their application to the transferred territories, in consequence of the transition to the said provisions from the corresponding provisions of the Act in force therein immediately before the commencement of this Act, the Government may, by order in the Andhra Pradesh Gazette, make such adaptations or modifications of the said Act not affecting the substance or make such provisions, as appear to them to be necessary or expedient for removing the difficulty: Provided that the power conferred by this sub-section shall not be exercisable after the expiration of three years from the commencement of this Act. (2) If any difficulty arises in giving effect to the provisions of this Act, or of the principal Act as extended by this Act (otherwise than in relation to the transition from the provisions of the corresponding Act in force before the commencement of this Act), in their application to the transferred territories, the State Government may, by order in the Andhra Pradesh Gazette, make such provision, not inconsistent with the purposes of this Act or of the principal Act as extended by this Act, as appear to them to be necessary or expedient for removing the difficulty.
Andhra Pradesh Survey and Boundaries (Extension and Amendment) Act, 1958_Section 7--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh Nothing contained in [the Andhra Pradesh (Telangana Area) Land Revenue Act, 1317 F. (Act VII of 1317 F.)] or [the Andhra Pradesh (Telangana Area) Record of Rights in Land Regulation, 1358 F. (Regulation LVIII of 1358 F.)] shall apply in so far as they relate to any matter or proceeding dealt within the principal Act as amended by this Act except as respects things done or omitted to be done before the commencement of this Act.1 Substituted by for the original short title by the First Schedule to the A. P. Laws (Amendment of Short Titles) Act, 1961 (A. P. Act IX of 1961. 
