Andhra Pradesh Infrastructure Development Enabling (Amendment) Act, 2017_Section Preamble--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh An Act further to amend the Andhra Pradesh Infrastructure Development Enabling Act, 2001. Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Andhra Pradesh in the Sixty-eighth year of the Republic of India as follows,-
Andhra Pradesh Infrastructure Development Enabling (Amendment) Act, 2017_Section 1--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh (1) This Act may be called the Andhra Pradesh Infrastructure Development Enabling (Amendment) Act, 2017. (2) It shall be deemed to have come into force with effect on and from the 23rd October, 2016.
Andhra Pradesh Infrastructure Development Enabling (Amendment) Act, 2017_Section 2--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh In the Andhra Pradesh Infrastructure Development Enabling Act, 2001, (hereinafter referred to as the Principal Act), in section-2,- (1) to clause (i), the following proviso shall be added, namely,- "Provided that unless the parties otherwise agreed the provisions of chapters V and VI of the Act shall not apply to any of the projects undertaken as per provisions of the Act.". (2) after clause (s), the following new clause shall be inserted, namely,- "(sa) 'Implementing Agency' means any department of Government, any Government Corporation or Public Sector undertaking and Government Agencies etc., which shall implement their projects independently by following the procedure i. e., Business Rules of their department, and other rules being followed by respective Government Departments, Government Agencies, Public Sector undertaking respectively. The Infrastructure Authority may be choosen to be Implementing Agency and frame its own procedure for such projects.". (3) clause (ff) shall be omitted. (4) to clause (ss), the following provisos shall be added, namely,- "Provided that the interested applicants shall mean only qualified bidders. Provided further that the proprietary information means and includes the business plan of the proponent viz., Technical data, the commercial information and plans or design etc., prepared by proponent but not the revenue share offered by proponent.".
Andhra Pradesh Infrastructure Development Enabling (Amendment) Act, 2017_Section 3--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh In the Principal Act, Section 7 shall be omitted.
Andhra Pradesh Infrastructure Development Enabling (Amendment) Act, 2017_Section 4--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh In the Principal Act, in Section 9, sub-section (1) shall be omitted.
Andhra Pradesh Infrastructure Development Enabling (Amendment) Act, 2017_Section 5--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh In the Principal Act, in Section 10,- (i) in clause (a), the following words shall be added at the end, namely,-"for such conceptualized projects" (ii) Clauses (b) to (p) shall be omitted. (iii) Clauses (s), (t), (v), (w), (x), (aa) and (bb) shall be omitted.
Andhra Pradesh Infrastructure Development Enabling (Amendment) Act, 2017_Section 6--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh In the Principal Act, Sections 11 and 12 shall be omitted.
Andhra Pradesh Infrastructure Development Enabling (Amendment) Act, 2017_Section 7--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh In the Principal Act, for Section 14, the following new Section shall be substituted, namely,- 14. "Project Identification.-Government or any Government Departments or Infrastructure Authority or any Government Public Sector undertaking or any Government Agency or local body may conceptualize develop and implement any infrastructure project by following the procedures prescribed by respective departments or such agencies referred above.".
Andhra Pradesh Infrastructure Development Enabling (Amendment) Act, 2017_Section 8--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh In the Principal Act, Sections 15 and 16 shall be omitted.
Andhra Pradesh Infrastructure Development Enabling (Amendment) Act, 2017_Section 9--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh In the Principal Act, in Section 17, in the proviso the words "with the approval of the Infrastructure Authority" shall be omitted.
Andhra Pradesh Infrastructure Development Enabling (Amendment) Act, 2017_Section 10--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh In the Principal Act, for Section 18, the following new Section shall be substituted, namely,- 18. "Consultant Selection.-The Government Agency or Local Authority or public sector undertaking or Infrastructure Authority may select appropriate consultants as may be required to conceptulize, development or implement any infrastructure project by following transparent procedure.".
Andhra Pradesh Infrastructure Development Enabling (Amendment) Act, 2017_Section 11--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh In the Principal Act, in section 19,- (i) in clause II under the heading "Swiss Challenge Approach", sub clauses (iv), (v), (vi) and (vii) shall be omitted and after sub-clause (ix) the following sub clause shall be added, namely,- "(x) the above Swiss Challenge approach shall however be followed in respect of a Project Subject to the approval of Competent Authority.". (ii) in clause III under the heading "Competitive Bidding", sub clause (vii) shall be omitted.
Andhra Pradesh Infrastructure Development Enabling (Amendment) Act, 2017_Section 12--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh In the Principal Act, in Sections 20, 22, 23, 24, 25 and 30 for the words Amendment of "Infrastructure Authority", the word "Government" shall be substituted.
Andhra Pradesh Infrastructure Development Enabling (Amendment) Act, 2017_Section 13--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh In the Principal Act, Sections 56, 57, 58, 59, 60 and 62 shall be omitted.
Andhra Pradesh Infrastructure Development Enabling (Amendment) Act, 2017_Section 14--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh In the Principal Act, in Sections 63 and 64 for the words "Infrastructure Authority", wherever they occur the words, "Government" shall be substituted.
Andhra Pradesh Infrastructure Development Enabling (Amendment) Act, 2017_Section 15--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh In the Principal Act, Section 65 shall be omitted.
Andhra Pradesh Infrastructure Development Enabling (Amendment) Act, 2017_Section 16--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh In the Principal Act, in Section 69, in sub-section (1), the words "or order or direction of the Infrastructure Authority" shall be omitted.
Andhra Pradesh Infrastructure Development Enabling (Amendment) Act, 2017_Section 17--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh In the Principal Act, Section 78 shall be omitted.
Andhra Pradesh Infrastructure Development Enabling (Amendment) Act, 2017_Section 18--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh In the Principal Act, after Section 83, the following new Section shall be added, namely,- 84. "Transitional Provision.-On and from the date of commencement of the Provision. Andhra Pradesh Infrastructure Development Enabling (Amendment) Act, 2017, all or any proceedings or proceeding concerned to any project if any pending before the Infrastructure Authority shall be transferred to and dealt with by the State Government as per the provisions of the Principal Act as amended by the said Act".
Andhra Pradesh Infrastructure Development Enabling (Amendment) Act, 2017_Section 19--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh The Andhra Pradesh Infrastructure Development Enabling (Amendment) Ordinance, 2016 is hereby replaced. (C. S. S. V. Durga Prasad) Secretary to Government, Law Department. 
