Andhra Pradesh Co-operative Societies (Amendment) Act, 1999_Section Preamble--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh An act further to amend the Andhra Pradesh Co-Operative Societies Act, 1964. Be it enacted by the Legislative Assembly of the State of Andhra Pradesh in the Forty-ninth Year of the Republic of India, as follows:-
Andhra Pradesh Co-operative Societies (Amendment) Act, 1999_Section 1--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh (1) This Act may be called the Andhra Pradesh Co-operative Societies (Amendment) Act, 19991 . (2) It shall come into force on such date as the State Government may, by notification, appoint. Received the assent of the Governor on the 1st January, 1999
Andhra Pradesh Co-operative Societies (Amendment) Act, 1999_Section 2--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh In the Andhra Pradesh Co-operative Societies Act, 1964 (hereinafter referred to as the principal Act), in section 36, in sub-section (3), in the second proviso, for the words "a mortgage deed executed in favor of" the words "a mortgage created in favor of" shall be substituted.
Andhra Pradesh Co-operative Societies (Amendment) Act, 1999_Section 3--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh In section 92 of the principal Act, for the words "mortgage executed in favor of" the words "mortgage created in favor of" and for the words "execution of the mortgage" the words "creation of the mortgage" shall be substituted.
Andhra Pradesh Co-operative Societies (Amendment) Act, 1999_Section 4--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh In section 94 of the principal Act,- (i) for the words "mortgages executed in favor of," the words "mortgages created in favor of and for the words "date of such execution" the words "the date of such creation" shall be substituted; (ii) in the marginal heading, for the words "mortgages executed in favor of" the words "mortgages created in favor of" shall be substituted.
Andhra Pradesh Co-operative Societies (Amendment) Act, 1999_Section 5--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh In section 95 of the principal Act, for the words "a mortgage executed in favor of", the words "a mortgage created in favor of" shall be substituted.
Andhra Pradesh Co-operative Societies (Amendment) Act, 1999_Section 6--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh In section 96 of the principal Act, for the words "where a mortgage is executed in favor of", the words "where a mortgage is created in favor of" shall be substituted.
Andhra Pradesh Co-operative Societies (Amendment) Act, 1999_Section 7--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh In section 103 of the principal Act, for the words "a mortgage executed in favor of", the words "a mortgage created in favor of" shall be substituted.
Andhra Pradesh Co-operative Societies (Amendment) Act, 1999_Section 8--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh In section 104 of the principal Act, for the words "where a power of sale without the intervention of the Court is expressly conferred on the Financing Bank, Primary Agricultural Co-operative Society by the mortgage deed, the Committee of such Bank or any person authorized by such Committee", the words "the Committee of the Financing Bank or any person authorized by the Primary Agricultural Cooperative Society" shall be substituted.
Andhra Pradesh Co-operative Societies (Amendment) Act, 1999_Section 9--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh In section 108 of the principal Act, for the words "a mortgage executed in favor of" the words "a mortgage created in favor of" and for the words "it was executed" in the two places where they occur, the words "it was created" shall be substituted.
Andhra Pradesh Co-operative Societies (Amendment) Act, 1999_Section 10--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh In section 114 of the principal Act,- (i) in sub-section (1), for the words "mortgage executed in favor of" the words "a mortgage created in favor of" shall be substituted; (ii) in sub-section (2), for the words "it was executed" the words "it was created" shall be substituted; (iii) in the marginal heading, for the words "mortgages executed" the words "mortgages created" shall be substituted. (G. Bhavani Prasad), Secretary to Government, Legislative Affairs & Justice Law Department. 
