Andhra Pradesh Municipal Laws (Second Amendment) Act, 2001_Section Preamble--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh An Act further to amend the Andhra Pradesh Municipalities Act, 1965 and the Hyderabad Municipal Corporations Act, 1955. Be it enacted by the Legislative Assembly of the State of Andhra Pradesh in the Fifty second Year of the Republic of India, as follows:
Andhra Pradesh Municipal Laws (Second Amendment) Act, 2001_Section 1--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh (1) This Act may be called the Andhra Pradesh Municipal Laws (Second Amendment) Act, 20011 . (2) It shall come into force on such date as the State Government may, by notification appoint. Received the assent of the Governor on the 10th April, 2001 and the said assent is hereby first published on the 11th April, 2001 in the Andhra Pradesh
Andhra Pradesh Municipal Laws (Second Amendment) Act, 2001_Section 2--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh In the Andhra Pradesh Municipalities Act, 1965, after section 28-D, the following provision shall be inserted, namely:- "28E. Voting machines at elections:-Not withstanding anything contained in this Act or the rules made there under, the giving and recording of votes by voting machines in such manner as may be prescribed, may be adopted in such ward or wards as the State Election commission may, having regard to the circumstances of each case, specify. Explanation:- For the purpose of this section, 'Voting machine' means any machine or apparatus whether operated electronically or otherwise used for giving or recording of votes and any reference to a ballot box or ballot paper in this Act or the rules made there under shall save as otherwise provided, be construed as including a reference to such voting machine is used at any election.".
Andhra Pradesh Municipal Laws (Second Amendment) Act, 2001_Section 3--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh In the Hyderabad Municipal Corporations Act, 1955, after section 60, the following provision shall be inserted, namely "60A. Voting machines at elections:-Not withstanding anything, contained in this Act or the rules made there under, the giving and recording of votes by voting ‘machines in’ such manner as may be prescribed, may be adopted in such ward or wards as the State Election Commission may, having regard to the circumstances of each case, specify. Explanation:- For the purpose of this section, 'Voting machine’ means any machine or apparatus whether operated electronically or otherwise used for giving or recording of votes and any reference to a ballot box or ballot paper in this Act or the rules made there under shall, save as otherwise provided, be construed as including a reference to such voting machine wherever such voting machine is used at any election.".
Andhra Pradesh Municipal Laws (Second Amendment) Act, 2001_Section 4--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh The amendments made to the Hyderabad Municipal Corporations Act, 1955 by section 3, shall extend to and shall apply also to the Visakhapatnam and Vijayawada Municipal Corporations and also to other Corporations constituted under the Andhra Pradesh Municipal Corporations Act, 1994. (G. Bhavani Prasad), Secretary to Government, Legislative Affairs & Justice, Law Department. 
