Andhra Pradesh (Regulation of Trade in Indian Made Foreign Liquor, Foreign Liquor) (Amendment) Act, 2016_Section Preamble--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh An Act further to amend the Andhra Pradesh (Regulation of Trade in Indian Made Foreign Liquor, Foreign Liquor) Act, 1993. Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Andhra Pradesh in the Sixty-sixth year of the Republic of India, as follows:-
Andhra Pradesh (Regulation of Trade in Indian Made Foreign Liquor, Foreign Liquor) (Amendment) Act, 2016_Section 1--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh (1) This Act may be called the Andhra Pradesh (Regulation of Trade in Indian Made Foreign Liquor, Foreign Liquor) (Amendment) Act, 2016. (2) It shall come into force at once.
Andhra Pradesh (Regulation of Trade in Indian Made Foreign Liquor, Foreign Liquor) (Amendment) Act, 2016_Section 2--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh In the Andhra Pradesh (Regulation of Trade in Indian Made Foreign Liquor, Foreign Liquor) Act, 1993 (hereinafter referred to as the Principal Act), in section 4,- (1) in sub-section (1),- (i) for the words, "the Andhra Pradesh Beverages Corporation Limited, a Corporation wholly owned and controlled by the Government", the expression "the Andhra Pradesh Beverages Corporation Limited, the Andhra Pradesh State Beverages Corporation Limited incorporated under the Companies Act, 2013 or any other Corporation wholly owned, controlled and authorized by the Government in this behalf, shall be substituted; (ii) for the words, "exclusive privilege", the word "privilege" shall be substituted; (iii) in the Explanation thereunder, for the words, "the Andhra Pradesh Beverages Corporation Limited" the expression "the Andhra Pradesh Beverages Corporation Limited, the Andhra Pradesh State Beverages Corporation Limited incorporated under the Companies Act, 2013 or any other Corporation wholly owned, controlled and authorized by the Government in this behalf, shall be substituted. (2) In sub-section (2), for the words, "the Andhra Pradesh Beverages Corporation Limited" the expression "the Andhra Pradesh Beverages Corporation Limited, the Andhra Pradesh State Beverages Corporation Limited incorporated under the Companies Act, 2013 or any other Corporation wholly owned, controlled and authorized by the Government in this behalf, shall be substituted.
Andhra Pradesh (Regulation of Trade in Indian Made Foreign Liquor, Foreign Liquor) (Amendment) Act, 2016_Section 3--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh In section 4-A of the principal Act, for the words, "the Andhra Pradesh Beverages Corporation Limited" the expression "the Andhra Pradesh Beverages Corporation Limited, the Andhra Pradesh State Beverages Corporation Limited incorporated under the Companies Act, 2013 or any other Corporation wholly owned, controlled and authorized by the Government in this behalf", shall be substituted.
Andhra Pradesh (Regulation of Trade in Indian Made Foreign Liquor, Foreign Liquor) (Amendment) Act, 2016_Section 4--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh In section 4-B of the principal Act, for the words, "the Andhra Pradesh Beverages Corporation Limited" the expression "the Andhra Pradesh Beverages Corporation Limited, the Andhra Pradesh State Beverages Corporation Limited incorporated under the Companies Act, 2013 or any other Corporation wholly owned, controlled and authorized by the Government in this behalf", shall be substituted. (C. S. S. V. Durga Prasad) Secretary to Government, Law Department. 
