Andhra Pradesh Rashtra Karshaka Parishad and Allied Bodies (Amendment) Act, 1988_Section Preamble--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh An Act to amend the Andhra Pradesh Rashtra Karshaka Parishad and Allied Bodies Act, 1987 . Be it enacted by the Legislative Assembly of the State of Andhra Pradesh in the Thirty-eight Year of the Republic of India, as follows:-
Andhra Pradesh Rashtra Karshaka Parishad and Allied Bodies (Amendment) Act, 1988_Section 1--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh (1) This Act may be called the Andhra Pradesh Rashtra Karshaka Parishad and Allied Bodies (Amendment) Act, 19881 . (2) It shall be deemed to have come into force on the 1st November, 1987. Received the assent of the Governor on the 18th January, 1988.
Andhra Pradesh Rashtra Karshaka Parishad and Allied Bodies (Amendment) Act, 1988_Section 2--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh In the Andhra Pradesh Rashtra Karshaka parishad and Allied Bodies Act, 1987, for section 37, the following section shall be substituted, namely;- "37. Existing members, Vice-Chairman and Chairman of the Market Committee to cease to hold office:-(1) Notwithstanding anything in the Andhra Pradesh (Agricultural Produce and Livestock) Markets Act, 1966 (hereinafter in this section referred to as the Markets Act), all the members, Vice-Chairman and Chairman of every Market Committee holding offices at the commencement of this Act, shall cease to hold offices as such and thereupon, it shall be competent for the Government to appoint a person or persons to exercise the powers and perform the functions of the market committee until the concerned market committee is re-constituted in accordance with the provisions of section 5, or as the case may be, section 32-A of the Markets Act, as amended by this Act. (2) The person or persons so appointed shall subject to the control of the Government and to such instructions or directions as they may issue, from time to time, exercise the powers, discharge the duties and perform the functions of the market committee and take all such action as may be required in the interests of the market committee. (3) The Government may fix the remuneration payable to the person or persons so appointed. The amount of such remuneration and other costs, if any, incurred in the management of the market committee shall be payable out of the Market Committee Fund.".
Andhra Pradesh Rashtra Karshaka Parishad and Allied Bodies (Amendment) Act, 1988_Section 3--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh The Andhra Pradesh Rashtra Karshaka Parishad and Allied Bodies (Amendment) Ordinance, 1987 is hereby repealed. 
