Andhra Pradesh Payment of Salaries and Pension and Removal of Disqualifications (Amendment) Act, 1991_Section Preamble--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh An act further to amend the Andhra Pradesh payment of salaries and Pension and removal of disqualifications Act, 1953. Be it enacted by the Legislative Assembly of the State of Andhra Pradesh in the Forty second-Year of the Republic of India, as follows:-
Andhra Pradesh Payment of Salaries and Pension and Removal of Disqualifications (Amendment) Act, 1991_Section 1--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh (1) This Act may be called the Andhra Pradesh Payment of Salaries and Pension and Removal of Disqualifications (Amendment) Act, 1991.1 (2) It shall be deemed to have come into force on the 6th December, 1990. Received the assent of the Governor on the 12-04-1991
Andhra Pradesh Payment of Salaries and Pension and Removal of Disqualifications (Amendment) Act, 1991_Section 2--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh In the Andhra Pradesh Payment of Salaries and Pension and Removal of Dis-qualifications Act, 1953, in the Schedule,- (1) for entry 49, the following shall be substituted, namely:- "49. The Office of the President, Parakala Seshavatharam, Andhra Pradesh State Chamber of Panchayati Raj, Hyderabad- (2) in entry 73, for the words "Zilla Parishad", the words "Zilla Praja Pari- shad shall be substituted; (3) in entry 74, for the words "Panchayat Samithi", the words "Mandala Praja Parishad", shall be substituted; (4) after entry 79, the following entries shall be added, namely:- "80. The Office of the Chairman, Andhra Pradesh Medical and Health Housing and Infrastructure Development Corporation Limited. 81. The Office of the Chairman, Andhra Pradesh State Handloom Weavers Co-operative Society Limited. 82. The Office of the Chairman, Andhra Pradesh State Essential Commodities Corporation Limited. 83. The Office of the Chairman, Andhra Pradesh Girijan Co-operative Coffee Development Corporation Limited,. Paderu 84. The Office of the Chairman, Andhra Pradesh Washer men Co-operative Federation. 85. The Office of the Chairman, Andhra Pradesh Nayee Brahmins Co-operative Federation. 86. The Office of the Chairman, Andhra 'Pradesh State Housing Corporation Limited. 87. The Office of the Chairman, Andhra Pradesh State Co-operative Rural Irrigation Corporation Limited. 88. The Office of the Chairman, Andhra Pradesh State Seeds Certification Agency. 89. The Office of the Chairman, Andhra Pradesh State Co-operative Marketing Federation. 90. The Office of the Chairman, Andhra Pradesh Co-operative Union. 91. The Office of the Chairman, Andhra Pradesh Co-operative Oil Seeds Growers' Federation. 92. The Office of the Chairman, Andhra Pradesh Co-operative Rice Mills Federation. 93. The Office of the Chairman, Andhra Pradesh Sahakara Vignana Samithi. 94.The Office of the Chairman , Andhra Pradesh Vikalangula Co-operative Finance Corporation. 95. The Office of the Chairman, Andhra Pradesh Minorities Commission. 96. The Office of the Chairman, Andhra Pradesh 'Beverages Corporation limited Hyderabad. 97. The Office of the Chairman, Andhra Pradesh Urban Development and Housing Corporation Limited, Hyderabad. 98. The Office of the Chairman, Andhra Pradesh Grandhelaya Parishad. 99. The Office of the Chairman, Andhra Pradesh State Police Housing Corporation Limited. 100. The Office of the Chairman NEDCAP - (Non-Conventional- Energy Development Corporation of Andhra Pradesh). 101. The office of the chairman, Andhra Pradesh Technology, Services Limited. 102. The Office of the Chairman, Hyderabad Metropolitan Water Supply and Sewerage Board. 103. The Office of the Chairman, Hyderabad Allwyns Limited. 104.. The Office of the Chairman, Andhra Pradesh Electronics. Development Corporation Limited. 105. The Office of the Chairman, Andhra Pradesh State Minorities Finance Corporation Limited. 106. The Office of the Chairman, Andhra Pradesh Scooters Limited. 107. The Office of the Chairman, Andhra Pradesh Handicraft Development Corporation Limited. 108. The Office of the Chairman, Andhra Pradesh Mineral Development Corporation. 109. The Office of the Chairman, Andhra Pradesh Poods. 110. The Office of the Chairman, Republic Forge Company Limited. 111. The Office of the Chairman of any Co-operative Sugar Hill. 112. The Office of the Chairman of any Co-operative Spinning Mill. 113.. The Office of the Chairman of any Cotton Growers Co-operative Spinning Mill. 114. The Office of the Chairman, Andhra Pradesh Non-Resident Indian Investment Corporation Limited, (ANRICH). 115. The Office of Chairman/President of any Co-operative Society at the Primary, Central and Apex level."
Andhra Pradesh Payment of Salaries and Pension and Removal of Disqualifications (Amendment) Act, 1991_Section 3--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh The Andhra Pradesh Payment of Salaries and Pension and Removal of Disqualifications (Amendment) Ordinance, 1990 is hereby repealed. 
