Andhra Pradesh General Sales Tax (Third Amendment) Act, 1995_Section Preamble--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh An Act further to amend the Andhra Pradesh General Sales Tax Act, 1957. BE it enacted by the Legislative Assembly of the State of Andhra Pradesh in the Forty-sixth Year of the Republic of India as follows :-
Andhra Pradesh General Sales Tax (Third Amendment) Act, 1995_Section 1--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh (1) This Act may be called the Andhra Pradesh General Sales Tax (Third Amendment) Act, 1995. (2) It shall come into force on such date as the State Government may, by notification, appoint.
Andhra Pradesh General Sales Tax (Third Amendment) Act, 1995_Section 2--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh In the Andhra Pradesh General Sales Tax Act, 1957 (hereinafter referred to as the principal Act), in section 2, in sub-section (1), - (i) after clause (m), the following clause shall be inserted, namely :- "(mm) 'Retail dealer' means any dealer whose total turnover is entirely by way of sale of goods to persons other than dealers in the relevant assessment year and does not exceed rupees ten lakhs"; (ii) in clause (s), - (a) in sub-clause (i), for the words "the bill of sale.", the words "the bill of sale excluding the amount collected towards the tax or the tax due under the Act whichever is less" shall be substituted; (b) in sub-clause (ii), for the words "or purchase of goods", the words "or purchase of goods excluding tax due under the Act" shall be substituted; (iii) for clause (t), the following clause shall be substituted, namely :- "(t) 'works contract' includes any agreement for carrying out for cash or for deferred payment or for any other valuable consideration, the building construction, manufacture, processing, fabrication, erection, installation, fitting out, improvement, modification, repair or commissioning of any movable or immovable property.".
Andhra Pradesh General Sales Tax (Third Amendment) Act, 1995_Section 3--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh Section 5-A of the principal Act, shall be omitted.
Andhra Pradesh General Sales Tax (Third Amendment) Act, 1995_Section 4--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh In the principal Act, in section 5-B, in sub-section (1) for the expression "sections 5, 5-A and 6-B," the expression "section 5" shall be substituted and for the expression "sections 6, 5-A and 6-B," the expression "section 6" shall be substituted.
Andhra Pradesh General Sales Tax (Third Amendment) Act, 1995_Section 5--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh In the principal Act, for section 5-E, the following shall be substituted, namely :- "5E. Tax on the amount realised in respect of any right to use goods. -Notwithstanding anything contained in this Act, - (a) Every dealer who transfers the right to use any goods for any purpose, whatsoever, whether or not for a specified specified period, to any lessee or licensee for cash, deferred payment or other valuable consideration, in the course of his business shall, on the total amount realised or realisable by him by way of payment in cash or otherwise on such transfer or transfers of the right to use such goods from the lessee or licensee, pay a tax at the rate of five paise in every rupee of the aggregate of such amount realised or realisable by him during the year; (b) the transfer of right to use any such goods entered into by any dealer, shall be deemed to have taken place in this State whenever the goods are used within the State, irrespective of the place where the agreement whether written or oral for such transfer of right is made.".
Andhra Pradesh General Sales Tax (Third Amendment) Act, 1995_Section 6--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh In the principal Act, after section 5-E, the following sections shall be inserted, namely :- "5-F. Levy of tax on transfer of property in goods involved in the execution of works contract. - Notwithstanding anything contained in section 5 or section 6, every dealer shall pay a tax under this Act for each year, on his turnover of transfer of property in goods whether as goods or in some other form, involved in the execution of works contract, at the rate of six paise on every rupee of his turnover : Provided that tax shall be paid at the rate of four paise on every rupee of his turnover pertaining to declared goods, if the goods have not suffered tax earlier, and no tax shall be payable on the turnover pertaining to declared goods, if such goods have suffered tax earlier under this Act and are transferred from the contractor to the contractee in the same form in which they were purchased by the contractor : Provided further that no tax shall be levied on the turnover of transfer of property in goods, specified in the Fourth Schedule to the Act, involved in the execution of works contract, if such goods are transferred from the contractor to the contractee in the same form in which they were purchased by the contractor : Provided also that no such tax shall be leviable on the turnover of transfer of property in goods whether as goods or in some other form involved in the execution of works contract, if such transfer from the contractor to the contractee constitutes a sale in the course of inter-State trade or commerce under section 3 or an outside the State sale under section 4, or a sale in the course of import or export under section 5 of the Central Sales Tax Act, 1956 but does not include the goods either obtained or purchased from other States and used in the execution of works contract : Provided also that no tax shall be payable under this section on the turnover relating to the amounts paid to a sub-contractor as consideration for the execution of works contract whether wholly or partly subject to the production of proof that such sub-contractor is a registered dealer liable to tax under the Act and that the turnover of such amount is included in the return of turnover filed by such sub-contractor.
Andhra Pradesh General Sales Tax (Third Amendment) Act, 1995_Section 5-G--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh (1) Subject to such conditions and in such circumstances as may be prescribed, the assessing authority of the area may, if a dealer, liable to pay tax under section 5-F, so elects, accept in lieu of the amount of tax payable by him under the said section during they year, by way of composition an amount at the rate of four per cent of his total turnover : Provided that no tax shall be payable under this section on the turnover relating to the amounts paid to a sub-contractor as consideration for the execution of works contract whether wholly or partly subject to the production of proof that such sub-contractor is a registered dealer liable to tax under the Act and that the turnover of such amounts is included in the return of turnover filed by such sub-contractor. (2) Every dealer who elects to pay tax under sub-section (1) shall apply in the prescribed form to the assessing authority to be permitted to pay the amount of tax under sub-section (1) and, on being so permitted, in the prescribed form, he shall pay tax as specified under sections 13 and 15 of the Act.
Andhra Pradesh General Sales Tax (Third Amendment) Act, 1995_Section 5-H--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh (1) Notwithstanding anything contained in this Act, the Central Government, or the State Government, or an industrial, commercial or trading undertaking of the Central Government or of the State Government or a local authority or a statutory body, shall deduct from out of the amounts payable by them to a dealer in respect of works contracts of the works specified in section 5-F and 5-G executed for them, an amount calculated at the rate of four per cent of the total turnover. (2) The tax deducted under sub-section (1) shall be remitted into the Government treasury under the sales tax head of account within seven days from the date of such deduction. (3) The authority making deduction under sub-section (1) shall furnish to the dealer from whom such deduction is made, a certificate, containing such particulars as may be prescribed. (4) If any such authority defaults to deduct the tax specified under sub-section (1) or defaults to remit the amount so deducted or any portion thereof as required under sub-section (2), it shall be liable to pay, in addition to the amount so deducted, interest at the rates specified in sub-section (3) of section 16 of the Act on the amount with respect to which the default has taken place from the date of default to the date on which such amount is remitted. (5) Payment by way of deduction in accordance with sub-section (2) shall be without prejudice to any other mode of recovery of tax due under this Act from the dealer executing the works contract. (6) Where, tax in respect of works contract is remitted under sub-section (2), the tax payable by the dealer in respect of such works contract shall be reduced by the amount of tax already remitted under the said sub-section : Provided that the burden of proving that the tax on such works contract has already been remitted and of establishing the exact quantum of tax so remitted shall be on the dealer claiming the reduction.".
Andhra Pradesh General Sales Tax (Third Amendment) Act, 1995_Section 7--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh In the principal Act, in section 6-A, the expression "or section 5-A" and the proviso thereunder, shall be omitted.
Andhra Pradesh General Sales Tax (Third Amendment) Act, 1995_Section 8--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh In the principal Act, section 6-B shall be omitted.
Andhra Pradesh General Sales Tax (Third Amendment) Act, 1995_Section 9--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh In the principal Act, for section 6-C, the following section shall be substituted, namely : - "6-C. Levy of tax on packing material.-Notwithstanding anything contained in section 5, section 5-F, section 6 and section 6-A, the rate of tax on packing material sold with the goods shall be the same as that of the goods packed or filled, whether or not there is separate sale or agreement for sale for the packing material and the goods packed or filled.".
Andhra Pradesh General Sales Tax (Third Amendment) Act, 1995_Section 10--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh In the principal Act, in section 7-A, after sub-section (1), the following sub-section shall be inserted, namely :- "(1A) Notwithstanding anything contained in this Act, or in any other law, a dealer in any of the goods liable to tax in respect of the sale or the purchase in the State shall be deemed to be the seller or purchaser, as the case may be of such goods and shall be liable to pay tax accordingly on his turnover of sales or purchases relating to such goods, unless he proves to the satisfaction of the assessing authority that the goods sold or purchased as the case may be, have already suffered tax under this Act.".
Andhra Pradesh General Sales Tax (Third Amendment) Act, 1995_Section 11--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh In the principal Act, after section 13-B, the following section shall be inserted, namely :- "13-C. Issue of bills.-(1) Every dealer whose total turnover is not less than one lakh rupees in a year, shall issue a bill or cash memorandum in the prescribed form in respect of every sale involving an amount not less than one hundred rupees and in case of sale involving an amount less than one hundred rupees when demanded by the buyer. In every such bill issued to the purchaser, the price of the goods and the amount of tax collected thereon shall be shown separately. (2) Every dealer who violates the provisions of sub-section (1) shall be liable for penalty equivalent to five times the tax due on each bill or an amount of one thousand rupees whichever is high, for every one of such lapse.".
Andhra Pradesh General Sales Tax (Third Amendment) Act, 1995_Section 12--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh In the principal Act, in section 14, in sub-section (1), - (i) for the words "four years", the words "three years" shall be substituted; (ii) the following proviso shall be inserted, namely :- "Provided that notwithstanding the amendment made to sub-section (1) by the Andhra Pradesh General Sales Tax (Third Amendment Act, 1995 the period for assessment under this sub-section shall continue to be four years for the years preceding to the year 1992-93.".
Andhra Pradesh General Sales Tax (Third Amendment) Act, 1995_Section 13--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh In the principal Act, in section 14-A, in sub-section (1), in clause (b), for the words "four years", the words "three years" shall be substituted.
Andhra Pradesh General Sales Tax (Third Amendment) Act, 1995_Section 14--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh In the principal Act, in section 14-B, in sub-section (1), for the words "four years", the words "three years" shall be substituted.
Andhra Pradesh General Sales Tax (Third Amendment) Act, 1995_Section 15--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh In the principal Act, after section 14-B, the following sections shall be inserted, namely :- "14-C. Special provision to pay tax on total turnover.-(1) Subject to the conditions specified in sub-sections (2) to (5) of this section any dealer other than a casual trader or an agent of a non-resident dealer or a dealer who is registered under section 7 of the Central Sales Tax Act, 1956 whose total turnover does not exceed rupees five lakhs for the assessment year concerned, may at his option, pay the amount of tax at the rate of two per cent of the total turnover, in lieu of tax payable under the other provisions of this Act. (2) The provisions of this section shall not apply to dealers dealing in such commodities as may be notified by the Government from time to time. (3) No dealer shall be eligible to opt to pay tax under sub-section (1) for three years from the date of registration under this Act. (4) If in any one of the preceding three years, the total turnover of a dealer exceeds rupees five lakhs, he shall not be eligible to opt to pay tax under sub-section (1). (5) Any dealer who is in arrears in the payment of tax to the Government and any dealer against whom proceedings are pending or action was taken under section 14(4) of the Act, in any of the preceding three years, shall not be entitled to opt to pay tax under sub-section (1). (6) The assessment of tax under sub-section (1) shall be deemed to have been completed when the dealer files his return in such manner and with such particulars and proof as may be prescribed. (7) If the return filed by a dealer under sub-section (1) appears to be incorrect or incomplete, or the dealer has not paid in full the tax payable under sub-section (1), the authority prescribed shall cancel the option exercised and also the assessment that was deemed to have been completed under sub-section (6) and proceed to assess the total turnover under section 14 of the Act.
Andhra Pradesh General Sales Tax (Third Amendment) Act, 1995_Section 14-D--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh (1) Every dealer (other than a casual trader or a dealer who opted for payment of tax under section 14-C or agent of a non-resident dealer) whose total turnover in a year does not exceed rupees twenty five lakhs, in addition to the returns to be filed under section 13 shall within thirty days of the close of the year, submit to the assessing authority concerned a return of his total and net turnovers and tax due thereon, at all places of his business in the preceding year, in such form and in such manner, as may be prescribed along with the tax due. (2) Every such dealer liable to submit a return of self assessment under sub-section (1) shall assess the correct amount of tax due on the turnover liable to tax : Provided that no dealer shall be eligible to assess the tax under this section due for three years from the date of registration under this Act. (3) Among the cases where the return is filed under sub-section (1) the assessing authority shall take up assessment under section 14 in respect of the following cases, namely :- (i) where the return filed by the dealer under sub-section (1) does not appear to be correct and complete; or the dealer has not paid the tax due under sub-section (1) in full; or (ii) where the increase in net taxable turnover during assessment year is less than twenty-five per cent over such turnover of the preceding year; or (iii) where in any one of the preceding three years the total turnover of a dealer exceeds rupees twenty-five lakhs; or (iv) where a dealer is in arrears of tax to the Government; or (v) where on inspection of the business premises of a dealer or otherwise there is reason to believe that the dealer has suppressed a part or whole of the turnover of his business or that the dealer is evading payment of tax; or (vi) where in any one of the three preceding years, any proceedings are pending or action was taken under section 14(4) or section 14(8) of the Act; or (vii) where the dealer fails to furnish the details of usage of statutory forms like Way Bills, C-Forms, F-Forms, H-Forms and G-Forms during the relevant year. (4) It shall be competent for the assessing authority to take up the returns filed by such number of dealers for assessment under section 14 as it may deem necessary for detailed scrutiny and verification. (5) In all the cases where a return filed under sub-section (1) is not taken up for assessment either under sub-section (3) or sub-section (4), the return so filed shall be deemed to have been accepted and orders shall be passed in the manner prescribed. (6) The provisions of sub-section (4) of section 14 shall mutatis mutandis apply to the assessment under this section.".
Andhra Pradesh General Sales Tax (Third Amendment) Act, 1995_Section 16--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh In the principal Act, in section 19, in sub-section (1), for the proviso, the following provisos shall be substituted, namely :- "Provided that the appellate authority may admit an appeal preferred after a period of thirty days aforesaid, if he is satisfied that the dealer had sufficient cause for not preferring the appeal within that period : Provided further that an appeal so preferred shall not be admitted by the appellate authority concerned unless the dealer produces proof of payment of tax admitted to be due, or of such instalments as have been granted, for the relevant assessment year, in respect of which the appeal is preferred.".
Andhra Pradesh General Sales Tax (Third Amendment) Act, 1995_Section 17--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh In the principal Act, after section 30A, the following sections shall be inserted, namely :- "30-B. Prohibition against collection of tax in certain cases.-(1) No dealer shall collect any sum by way of tax, in respect of sale or purchase of any goods which are not liable to tax under this Act. (2) No person, other than a dealer, shall collect on the sale or purchase of any goods, any sum by way of tax from any other person and no dealer shall collect any amount by way of tax in excess of the the amount of tax already paid by him, if any, at the time of purchase by him and payable by him on the sale by him under the provisions of this Act. (3) Nothing in sub-section (2) shall apply to a person where he is required to collect separately any amount of tax under the provisions of any other law for the time being in force. 30-C. Imposition of penalty for contravening certain provisions. - (1) If any person collects tax in contravention of the provisions of section 30-B, any sum so collected shall be forfeited either wholly or partly to the State Government and in addition he shall be liable to pay a penalty of an amount not exceeding two thousand and five hundred rupees : Provided that the assessing authority shall while imposing the penalty or forfeiture, take into consideration the amount refunded to the purchaser from out of the amount collected by way of tax in contravention of section 30-B or for the refund of which satisfactory arrangements has been made. (2) No order for the forfeiture under this section, shall be made after the expiration of three years from the date of collection of the amount referred to in sub-section (1) : Provided that in computing the period of three years under this sub-section, the period during which any stay order was in force or any appeal or other proceeding in respect thereof was pending shall be excluded. (3) If the assessing authority in the course of any proceeding under this Act, or otherwise has reason to believe that any person has become liable to penalty with or without forfeiture of any sum under sub-section (1) such authority shall serve on such person a notice in the prescribed form requiring him on a date and at a place specified in the notice to attend and show cause why a penalty with or without forfeiture of any sum as provided in sub-section (1) shall not be imposed on him. (4) The assessing authority shall thereupon hold an enquiry and shall make such order as he thinks fit. (5) No prosecution for an offence under this Act, shall be instituted in respect of the same facts on which a penalty has been imposed under this section.".
Andhra Pradesh General Sales Tax (Third Amendment) Act, 1995_Section 18--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh In the principal Act, for the First, Second, Fifth, Sixth and Seventh Schedules, the following Schedules shall be substituted, namely :- "FIRST SCHEDULE GOODS IN RESPECT OF WHICH SINGLE POINT TAX IS LEVIABLE UNDER SECTION 5 ------------------------------------------------------------------------ Sl. Description of goods Point of Rate of No. levy tax ------------------------------------------------------------------------ (1) (2) (3) (4) ------------------------------------------------------------------------ 1. Motor vehicles including motor At the point of 16 paise in cars, motor taxi-cabs, motor first sale the rupee cycles and motor cycle in the State combinations, motor scooters, motorettes, motor omnibuses, motor vans and motor lorries, chassis of motor vehicles belonging to others (on the turnover relating to bodies), component parts of motor vehicles, all varieties of trailers by whatever name known and articles excluding batteries) adopted for use generally as parts and accessories of motor vehicles and trailers, including seat covers. 2. Refrigerators, air-conditioning At the point of 16 paise in plants, water-coolers, first sale in the rupee room-coolers and parts and the State accessories thereof, including refrigeration materials, like polystyrene foam. 3. Wireless reception instruments At the point of 16 paise in and apparatus, radios, first sale in the rupee radio-gramophones, televisions, the State electrical valves, accumulators, amplifiers and loud-speakers and spare parts and accessories thereof. 4. Cinematographic equipment At the point of 16 paise in including cameras, projectors first sale in the rupee and sound recording and the State reproducing equipment lenses, films and parts and accessories required for use therewith. 5. Omitted 6. Omitted 7. Omitted 8. All arms including rifles, At the point of 16 paise in revolvers and pistols and first sale in the rupee ammunition for the same. the State 9. Cigarette cases and lighters At the point of 16 paise in first sale in the rupee the State 10. Tape recorders, dictaphones At the point of 16 paise in and other sound recording first sale in the rupee apparatus and spare parts the State thereof including magnetic tapes and other materials used for recording sound whether encased in a cassette or otherwise and also pre-recorded tape cassettes. 11. Sound transmitting equipment At the point of 16 paise in including telephones and first sale in the rupee loud-speakers and spare the State parts thereof 12. Typewriters, tabulating At the point of 16 paise in machines, calculating first sale in the rupee machines, teleprinters and the State teleprinting machines and duplicating machines and parts and accessories thereof, including typewriting ribbons. 13. Binoculars, telescopes and At the point of 16 paise in opera glasses and parts first sale in the rupee thereof. the State 14. Gramophones and component At the point of 16 paise in parts thereof and records first sale in the rupee (including gramophone the State records and gramophone needles). 15. Tyres and tubes and At the point of 16 paise in accessories used therewith first sale in the rupee made of rubber material other the State than those specifically mentioned elsewhere. 16. Omitted 17. Cycles, their accessories and At the point of 10 paise in parts including tyres and first sale in the rupee tubes and accessories used the State therewith made of rubber or other material : 18. Cement At the point of 16 paise in first sale in the rupee the State 19. Containers other than At the point of 9 paise in gunnies, bottles and plastic first sale in the rupee containers. the State 20. Bullion and specie At the point of 4 paise in first sale in the rupee the State 21. Articles and jewellery made At the point of 4 paise in of bullion or specie or first sale in the rupee both excluding precious the State stones. 22. Cotton yarn waste At the point of 9 paise in last sale in the rupee the State 23. Chemical fertilisers and At the point of 3 paise in bone meal (including first sale in the rupee mixtures or nutrient the State elements such as iron, zinc, copper and biological derivatives such as enzymes, co-enzymes and aucines.) 24. Groundnut oil or refined oil - (a) Groundnut oil or refined At the point of 10 paise in oil not covered by sub-item (b) first sale in the rupee below. the State (b) Groundnut oil or refined At the point of 4 paise in oil obtained from groundnut first sale in the rupee that has met tax under the the State Act. 25. Omitted 26. Omitted 27. Opium, ganja and bhang At the point of 16 paise in first sale in the rupee the State 28. Oil cakes At the point of 8 paise in first sale in the rupee the State 29. De-oiled cakes At the point of 8 paise in first sale in the rupee the State 30. Kolsite At the point of 8 paise in first sale in the rupee the State 31. Kerosene At the point of 8 paise in first sale in the rupee the State 32. Bricks, tiles, cement At the point of 9 paise in flooring stones, sand and last sale in the rupee granite stones including the State boulders and chips. 33. Coffee including coffee At the point of 10 paise in seeds, roasted seeds and first sale in the rupee coffee powder, excluding the State blended coffee powder. 34. Chicory At the point of 10 paise in first sale in the rupee the State 34A. Blended or French coffee At the point of 10 paise in (on the turnover relating first sale in the rupee to components thereof, the State namely, coffee and chicory which have not already met tax under this Act.) 35. Crockery and cutlery At the point of 10 paise in first sale in the rupee the State 36. Cosmetics and toilet At the point of 20 paise in preparations (including first sale in the rupee scents, perfumes, face the State powders) talcum powders, hair-tonics, hair-oils, hair lotions, face creams and snows, pomades, depilatories, tooth-powder, tooth-paste, tooth brushes and shaving creams. 37. Drugs and medicines (whether At the point of 9 paise in patent or proprietory, as first sale in the rupee defined in section 3 of the the State Drugs and Cosmetics Act, 1940 (Central Act 23 of 1940). 38. Electronic systems, At the point of 16 paise in instruments, apparatus, first sale in the rupee appliances, including the State electronic cash registering, indexing, card-punching, franking and addressing machines, computers of analog and digital varieties, one-record units, oscilloscopes and other electronic equipment and material and parts and accessories thereof. 39. Engine oils, lubricating At the point of 16 paise in oils, greases and break first sale in the rupee fluids. the State 40. Fireworks including coloured At the point of 16 paise in matches first sale in the rupee the State 41. Omitted 42. Hydrogenated oils At the point of 10 paise in first sale in the rupee the State 43. Marble and marble articles At the point of 16 paise in first sale in the rupee the State 44. Milk foods and powders such At the point of 8 paise in as Horlicks, Viva and the first sale in the rupee like condensed milk, baby the State milk and baby foods. 44A. All other foodstuffs or At the point of 10 paise in products, whether used as first sale in the rupee such or after mixing them the State with any other foodstuff or beverage when sold in sealed or tinned containers such as Bournvita, Ovaltine, Ragimalt, Boost and the like. 45. Omitted 46. Playing cards At the point of 16 paise in first sale in the rupee the State 47. Sewing machines and At the point of 10 paise in embroidering machines and first sale in the rupee parts and accessories the State thereof. 48. All kinds of soaps, soap At the point of 10 paise in flakes and soap powders, first sale in the rupee detergent powders and the State liquids, including metal polishing bars, powders and liquids. 49. Tea At the point of 10 paise in first sale in the rupee the State 50. Bulldozers, power tillers, At the point of 12 paise in tractors and parts and first sale in the rupee accessories thereof the State including trailers and parts and accessories of tractor trailers and tyres and tubes made of rubber or other materials. 51. Omitted 52. X-ray apparatus, films, At the point of 10 paise in plates and other equipment first sale in the rupee required for use therewith the State and accessories and spare parts thereof. 53. Chinaware and porcelainware At the point of 15 paise in other than crockery. first sale in the rupee the State 54. Omitted 55. Molasses At the point of 50 paise in first sale in the rupee the State 56. Power alcohol, ethyl At the point of 10 paise in alcohol, rectified spirit, first sale in the rupee denatured spirit. the State 57. Omitted 58. Bran and husk of rice At the point of 4 paise in first sale in the rupee the State 59. De-oiled bran of rice At the point of 8 paise in first sale in the rupee the State 60. (a) Maida, atta and ravva At the point of 4 paise in first sale in the rupee the State (b) Wheat bran At the point of 4 paise in first sale in the rupee the State 61. Raw wool, goats and sheeps At the point of 8 paise in hair and similar fibrous first sale in the rupee growth on bodies of animals. the State 62. Bones and horns of animals. At the point of 8 paise in first sale in the rupee the State 63. Omitted 64. Firewood At the point of 8 paise in first sale in the rupee the State 65. Charcoal At the point of 8 paise in first sale in the rupee the State 66. Omitted 67. Hessain cloth and jute twine At the point of 9 paise in first sale in the rupee the State 68. Chunni of pulses At the point of 8 paise in first sale in the rupee the State 69. Cotton waste At the point of 9 paise in first sale in the rupee the State 70. Aviation turbine fuel At the point of 30.55 paise first sale in in the the State rupee 71. Aviation motor spirit other At the point of 30.55 paise than turbine fuel first sale in in the the State rupee 72. Petrol other than aviation At the point of 30.55 paise motor spirit first sale in in the the State rupee 73. Diesel oil At the point of 19.33 paise first sale in in the the State rupee 74. Motor spirit not falling At the point of 30.55 paise under items 70, 71, 72 and 73 first sale in in the the State rupee 75. Bamboos At the point of 9 paise in first sale in the rupee the State 76. Artificial silk yarn At the point of 8 paise in first sale in the rupee the State 77. Omitted 78. Pesticides, insecticides, At the point of 4 paise in fungicides, herbicides, first sale in the rupee weedicides and other plant the State protection equipment and accessories thereof. 79. Pure silk cloth At the point of 10 paise in first sale in the rupee the State 80. Poultry feed and cattle feed At the point of 4 paise in first sale in the rupee the State 81. Omitted 82. Lifts, electrical or At the point of 16 paise in hydraulic first sale in the rupee the State 83. All kinds of machinery At the point of 10 paise in propelled or operated by first sale in the rupee (i) electricity, (ii) diesel, the State (iii) petrol, (iv) furnace oil, (v) kerosene, (vi) coal including charcoal, or (vii) any other fuel or power, including spare parts and accessories of such machinery (other than those specifically mentioned elsewhere). 83A. Machine tools including At the point of 10 paise in grinding wheels. first sale in the rupee the State 83B. Mounted rigs and parts and At the point of 10 paise in accessories thereof first sale in the rupee including air compressors the State and chassis on which such rigs are mounted. 84. Aeroplanes, rail coaches At the point of 16 paise in and parts thereof. first sale in the rupee the State 85. Gold thread (zari). At the point of 8 paise in first sale in the rupee the State 86. Newsprint At the point of 8 paise in first sale in the rupee the State 87. Omitted 88. Omitted 89. Furs and articles thereof At the point of 16 paise in first sale in the rupee the State 90. Leather goods other than At the point of 12 paise in footwear first sale in the rupee the State 90A. Sports goods including goods At the point of 10 paise in used for indoor or outdoor first sale in the rupee games or athletics including the State stop watches, sports shoes, rings, bladders, ball covers, caroms strikers, kit-bags, medals, cups, trophies and parts and accessories thereof whatever be the material they are made of. 91. Cement sheets, asbestos At the point of 15 paise in sheets first sale in the rupee the State 91A. Red mud plastic roofings At the point of 15 paise in first sale in the rupee the State 91B. Light roofing asphaltic At the point of 15 paise in corrugated sheets. first sale in the rupee the State 92. Mosaic tiles and chips, At the point of 16 paise in polished granite stones, first sale in the rupee ceramic and glazed floor the State and wall tiles and joining powder and situ mixtures. 92A. Ordinary polished stones At the point of 16 paise in including napa slabs. first sale in the rupee the State 93. Gun powder At the point of 8 paise in first sale in the rupee the State 94. Vacuum flasks including At the point of 15 paise in refills first sale in the rupee the State 95. Handlooms, parts and At the point of 4 paise in accessories first sale in the rupee the State 96. Arecanut At the point of 9 paise in first sale in the rupee the State 97. Pepper At the point of 8 paise in first sale in the rupee the State 98. Mineral oil including At the point of 8 paise in furnace oil (excluding first sale in the rupee lubricating oil) the State 99. Mercury At the point of 10 paise in first sale in the rupee the State 100. Folding umbrellas, garden At the point of 12 paise in umbrellas and parts. first sale in the rupee the State 101. Omitted 102. Omitted 102A. Omitted 103. Naptha At the point of 16 paise in first sale in the rupee the State 104. Omitted 105. Footwear other than plastic At the point of 9 paise in footwear costing less than first sale in the rupee rupees fifty. the State 106. Razor and razor blades At the point of 12 paise in first sale in the rupee the State 107. Spectacles, goggles, At the point of 12 paise in glasses, lenses and frames. first sale in the rupee the State 108. Aerated waters and bottled At the point of 12 paise in soft drinks sold under a first sale in the rupee brand name whether or not the State flavoured or sweetened and whether or not containing vegetable or fruit juice or fruit pulp, including squashes, jams, jellies, juices when sold in sealed or capsuled or corked bottles, jars, tins, drums or other containers. 109. Ice At the point of 10 paise in first sale in the rupee the State 110. Ice-cream, kulfi At the point of 10 paise in first sale in the rupee the State 111. Pile-carpets At the point of 16 paise in first sale in the rupee the State 112. Dry-fruits At the point of 10 paise in first sale in the rupee the State 113. Omitted 114. Omitted 115. Stoves, including pressure At the point of 12 paise in stoves, gas-ovens, blow first sale in the rupee lamps and parts and the State accessories thereof. 116. Pressure lamps, such as At the point of 12 paise in petromax lights and parts first sale in the rupee and accessories thereof. the State 117. Cakes, biscuits, pastries, At the point of 15 paise in toffees, chocolates and first sale in the rupee confectionery the State 118. Fuel gas, such as Burshane, At the point of 16 paise in Call Gas, Indane and Esso first sale in the rupee and other gases in the State compressed, liquified or solidified form. 119. Articles of ivory and of At the point of 15 paise in sandalwood first sale in the rupee the State 120. Musical instruments At the point of 10 paise in first sale in the rupee the State 121. Tinned, canned or preserved At the point of 15 paise in food in sealed containers. first sale in the rupee the State 122. Camphor At the point of 15 paise in first sale in the rupee the State 123. Omitted 124. Saccharine At the point of 10 paise in first sale in the rupee the State 125. Pressure cookers At the point of 12 paise in first sale in the rupee the State 126. Electric motors, oil At the point of 12 paise in engines, monobloc first sale in the rupee pump-sets and parts and the State accessories thereof. 127. Raw silk At the point of 10 paise in first sale in the rupee the State 128. Vegetable oils (other than At the point of 8 paise in those specifically mentioned first sale in the rupee elsewhere), including the State gingelly oil, safflower oil, sunflower oil, soyabean oil, mustard oil, kusum oil, tobacco seed oil, castor oil, washed cotton seed oil, coconut oil. 129. Articles of cooked or baked At the point of 9 paise in food first sale in the rupee the State 129A. Articles of processed food At the point of 10 paise in (other than those first sale in the rupee specifically mentioned the State elsewhere) prepared wholly or mainly from flour of gram, cereals, pulses or oil seeds. 129B. (a) Semiya, vermicelli and At the point of 8 paise in all types of noodles not first sale in the rupee covered by sub-item (b) the State below. (b) Semiya, vermicelli and At the point of 4 paise in all types of noodles first sale in the rupee obtained from wheat or the State maida that has met tax under this Act. 130. Pulses other than those At the point of 8 paise in falling under items 14 and first sale in the rupee 15 of the Third Schedule the State 131. Omitted 132. Photographs At the point of 8 paise in first sale in the rupee the State 133. Tricycles, perambulators At the point of 10 paise in and parts. first sale in the rupee the State 134. Cycle rickshaws, their parts At the point of 10 paise in including tyres and tubes. first sale in the rupee the State 135. Hearing aids and their At the point of 8 paise in parts. first sale in the rupee the State 136. Precious stones, that is At the point of 12 paise in to say, diamonds, emeralds, first sale in the rupee rubies, real pearls and the State sapphires. 137. Electrical storage At the point of 16 paise in batteries and parts first sale in the rupee thereof, including the State containers, covers and plates. 138. Spark plugs, whether used At the point of 16 paise in in motor vehicles or electrical first sale in the rupee motors or other machinery. the State 139. Rolling bearings, that is At the point of 15 paise in to say, ball or roller first sale in the rupee bearings of all kinds. the State 140. Omitted 141. All kinds of welding At the point of 12 paise in electrodes and welding rods. first sale in the rupee the State 142. Caustic soda At the point of 12 paise in first sale in the rupee the State 143. Omitted 144. Ravva - (a) Not covered by item (b) At the point of 9 paise in below first sale in the rupee the State (b) Obtained from rice At the point of 4 paise in including paddy out of first sale in the rupee which rice is produced the State that has met tax under this Act. (c) Obtained from maize At the point of 4 paise in first sale in the rupee the State 145. Omitted 146. Jewellery, gold coated or At the point of 4 paise in gold covered. first sale in the rupee the State 147. Parched and fried Bengal-gram or dhall and brokens and flour of gram or dhalls - (a) Not covered by item (b) At the point of 9 paise in below first sale in the rupee the State (b) Obtained from gram or At the point of 4 paise in dhall that has met tax first sale in the rupee under this Act. the State 148. Sodium hydrosulphate At the point of 15 paise in first sale in the rupee the State 149. Cotton sewing thread At the point of 9 paise in first sale in the rupee the State 150. Aluminium, brass, copper, At the point of 10 paise in bronze and articles made first sale in the rupee therefrom. the State 151. Washing blue or ultra At the point of 10 paise in marine blue first sale in the rupee the State 152. Dry batteries or cells At the point of 16 paise in and parts and accessories first sale in the rupee thereof. the State 153. Paddy and rice products At the point of 8 paise in such as murmuralu, pelalu first sale in the rupee and atukulu. the State 154. Butter and ghee when sold At the point of 10 paise in any organisation registered first sale in the rupee under the Companies Act, 1956 the State or the A.P. Co-operative Societies Act, 1964 or the Co-operative Societies Act of any other State or Union Territory. 155. Millets (including dehusked At the point of 4 paise in millets) other than those first sale in the rupee falling under items 17, 18, the State 19 and 20 of the Third Schedule. 156. Varigalu or variga rice or At the point of 4 paise in korralu or korra rice. first sale in the rupee the State 157. Gunnies At the point of 9 paise in first sale in the rupee the State 158. Betel-nut powder - (a) Not covered by item (b) At the point of 10 paise in below first sale in the rupee the State (b) Obtained from arecanut At the point of 4 paise in that has met tax under this first sale in the rupee Act. the State 159. Pickles when sold in sealed At the point of 10 paise in or capsuled or corked first sale in the rupee bottles, jars, tins or other the State containers. 160. Sanitary towels, sanitary At the point of 15 paise in napkins and beltless napkins first sale in the rupee and tampons. the State 161. Polyster viscose yarn At the point of 8 paise in first sale in the rupee the State 162. Cheese At the point of 10 paise in first sale in the rupee the State 163. Omitted 164. Sugar-candy At the point of 10 paise in first sale in the rupee the State 165. Blended cotton yarn with At the point of 8 paise in non-cellulosic fibre content first sale in the rupee not exceeding 16-2/3% by the State weight to that of cotton yarn (i.e., cotton/viscose or cotton/polysonic) 166. Coir products At the point of 9 paise in first sale in the rupee the State 167. Sago At the point of 9 paise in first sale in the rupee the State 168. Safety matches At the point of 9 paise in first sale in the rupee the State 169. Cashewnut kernel At the point of 10 paise in first sale in the rupee the State 170. Tamarind when obtained from At the point of 4 paise in outside the State. first sale in the rupee the State 171. Tamarind seed when obtained At the point of 9 paise in from outside the State. first sale in the rupee the State 172. Lead, nickel, zinc, At the point of 8 paise in magnesium and tin. first sale in the rupee the State 173. Agarbathi At the point of 10 paise in first sale in the rupee the State 174. P.V.C. cloth, water-proof At the point of 15 paise in cloth, tarpaulin and rexine. first sale in the rupee the State 175. Asphalt At the point of 16 paise in first sale in the rupee the State 176. Slack wax, paraffin wax, At the point of 16 paise in match wax and MC wax. first sale in the rupee the State 177. Methonol mixture At the point of 16 paise in first sale in the rupee the State 178. Petroleum jelly and At the point of 16 paise in petroleum coke first sale in the rupee the State 179. Water jel products At the point of 9 paise in first sale in the rupee the State 180. Omitted 181. Voltage stabilisers and At the point of 16 paise in voltage regulators first sale in the rupee the State 182. Spices that is to say, jeera, At the point of 9 paise in menthi, cloves, cinamon, first sale in the rupee shahjeera, cardamom, dry the State ginger, somph, nakesar (kabab chini), bhojuar phool, tejpatta, poppy seeds, nutmeg and japatri. 183. Garlic (velluli) At the point of 9 paise in first sale in the rupee the State 184. Katha (kasu) At the point of 9 paise in first sale in the rupee the State 185. Facor bhusakti At the point of 10 paise in first sale in the rupee the State 186. Plastics, that is to say - At the point of 8 paise in first sale in the rupee the State (1) Polymers of ethylene, in primary forms - poly ethylene. (2) Polymers of propylene or of other plefins, in primary forms - polypropylene, polyisobutylene. (3) Polymers of styrene, in primary forms-polystrene, styrene - acrylonitrile (SAN) cepolymers, acrylonitrylebutadiemestyrene (ABS) terpolymers. (4) Polymers of vinyl chloride or of other halogeneted plefynes, in primary forms - polyvinyl chloride, polycetrafluoroethylenes. (5) Polymers of vinyl acetate or of other vinyl esters in primary forms, other vinyl polymers in primary forms - polyvinyl alchols. (6) Acrylic polymers in primary forms - polymetheryl-mathcrylate. (7) Polyacetals, other polyethers and epocide resin, in primary forms, polycardonates, alkyd resins, polyellyl, esters and other polysters, in primary form-polyethylenes-terepthalate, diallylphthalate resins, polybutylterephalate. (8) Polyamides in primary forms. (9) Amino resins, polyphenylene exide, phonelyc resins and polyurethanes in primary forms. (10) Silicenes in primary forms. (11) Petroleum resins, coumarone idene resins, polyterpenes, polysulphides, in primary forms. (12) Cellulose and its chemical derivatives in primary forms, cellulose acetates, cellulose nitrates, cellulose others, cellulose anthate (13) Natural polymers (for example, aliginic acid) and modified natural polymers (for example, hardened proteins, chemical derivatives of natural rubber) in primary forms-dextran. (14) Ion-exchangers based on polymers of heading Nos. 1 to 13 above in primary forms and includes waste, perings and scrap of plastics. 187. Articles of plastics At the point of 10 paise in (excluding HDPE woven first sale in the rupee sacks) and including - the State (1) Monofilament rods, sticks and profile shapes of plastics. (2) Tubes, pipes and houses and fittings, therefor (for example, joints, elbows, flanges), of plastics. (3) Floor coverings of plastics, whether or not self-adhesive, in rolls or in the forms of tiles; wall or ceiling coverings of plastics. (4) Plates, blocks, sheets, film foil, tape, strip and other flat shapes. 188. High density polythylene At the point of 4 paise in polypropylene (HDPE/PP) first sale in the rupee woven sacks. the State 189. Glass fibre At the point of 8 paise in first sale in the rupee the State 190. Tractor drawn implements. At the point of 8 paise in first sale in the rupee the State 191. Adhesives, adhesive tapes, At the point of 15 paise in salofin tape, glue. first sale in the rupee the State 192. Lottery tickets At the point of 15 paise in first sale in the rupee the State Explanation I. - The expression "bullion" in items 20 and 21 means pure gold or silver and includes gold or silver mixed with copper, lead or any other kind of base metal. Explanation II. - Omitted w.e.f. 8-7-1983. Explanation III. - For the purpose of items 31, 39, 70 to 74, 98, 103, 118 a sale by one oil company to another oil company shall not be deemed to be the first sale in the State accordingly any sale by one oil company to any other person (not being an oil company) shall be deemed to be the first sale in the State. Note : The expression "oil company" in this explanation means : (a) Hindustan Petroleum Corporation Limited. (b) Indian Oil Corporation Limited (c) Bharat Petroleum Corporation Limited (d) Indo-Burma Petroleum Company Limited; and (e) Such other oil company as the Government may, from time to time, by notification in the Gazette specify in this behalf. Explanation IV. - Omitted. Explanation V. - For purposes of items 63, 64 and 75, in the case of fire wood and bamboos purchased by the forest contractors in the auction of forest coupes conducted by the Forest Department of the State Government and sold by such contractors, the sale by such contractors of such firewood or bamboos in any form or size shall be deemed to be first sale. Explanation VI. - Omitted w.e.f. 1-7-1985. Explanation VII. - For the purpose of item 79, "silk cloth" means all varieties of cloth manufactured either wholly or partly from silk and includes embroidery in the piece, in strips or in motifs but does not include any cloth which is subject to levy of duty under the Additional Duties of Excise (Goods of Special Importance) Act, 1957 (Central Act of 58 of 1957). Explanation VIII. - The pulses referred to in item 130, whether whole or separated and whether with or without husk, shall be treated as single commodity for the purpose of levy of tax under this Act. SECOND SCHEDULE GOODS IN RESPECT OF WHICH SINGLE POINT PURCHASE TAX IS LEVIABLE UNDER SECTION 5. ------------------------------------------------------------------------ Sl. Description of goods Point of levy Rate of tax No. ------------------------------------------------------------------------ (1) (2) (3) (4) ------------------------------------------------------------------------ 1. Manganese (including At the point of 8 paise in manganese ore) purchase by the the rupee last dealer who buys in the State 2. Iron ore -do- 8 paise in the rupee 3. Turmeric At the point of 4 paise in first purchase the rupee in the State 4. Omitted 5. Butter and ghee other than At the point of 9 paise in that purchased from any purchase by the the rupee organisation registered last dealer who under the Companies Act, buys in the 1956 or the Andhra Pradesh State Co-operative Societies Act, 1964. 6. Mica -do- 8 paise in the rupee 7. Palmyrah fibre and stalks -do- 8 paise in the rupee 8. Omitted 9. Coriander At the point of 12 paise in first purchase the rupee in the State 10. Coconuts other than those At the point of 8 paise in falling under item 5 of last purchase the rupee the Third Schedule in the State 11. Omitted 12. Cashewnut (with shell) At the point of 9 paise in first purchase the rupee in the State 13. Wattle bark and other barks At the point of 8 paise in purchase by the the rupee the last dealer who buys in the State 14. Tamarind when purchased At the point of 4 paise in within the State first purchase the rupee in the State 15. Tamarind seed when purchased -do- 8 paise in within the State the rupee 16. Chillies -do- 4 paise in the rupee 17. Pippalamodi or pippalanalaka -do- 8 paise in the rupee 18. Beedi leaves At the point of 9 paise in purchase by the the rupee last dealer who buys in the State 19. Prawns, lobsters, frogs At the point of 8 paise in and frog legs first purchase the rupee in the State 20. Tapioca At the point of 8 paise in last purchase the rupee in the State 21. Azwan (vamu) At the point of 8 paise in first purchase the rupee in the State FIFTH SCHEDULE GOODS IN RESPECT OF WHICH TAX IS LEVIABLE UNDER SECTION 5. ------------------------------------------------------------------------ Sl. Description of goods Point of levy Rate of tax No. ------------------------------------------------------------------------ (1) (2) (3) (4) ------------------------------------------------------------------------ 1. Jaggery At every 4 paise in point of sale the rupee 2. Provided that - in the State (a) where jaggery is sold to a dealer by a person who is not registered dealer otherwise than through an agent, the tax shall be levied at the point of purchase and not at the point of sale at the rate of four paise in the rupee. (b) where any purchase of jaggery by a dealer is taxed in accordance with clause (a), the sale of such jaggery effected by the said dealer shall not be taxed again; (c) where a registered dealer has purchased jaggery from another registered dealer and furnished to the prescribed authority in the prescribed manner a declaration in the prescribed form and containing such particulars as may be prescribed duly filled and signed by the registered dealer from whom he purchased such jaggery, the sale of such jaggery effected by the first mentioned registered dealer shall not be liable to tax. ------------------------------------------------------------------------ SIXTH SCHEDULE GOODS IN RESPECT OF WHICH TAX IS LEVIABLE UNDER SECTION 5 ------------------------------------------------------------------------ Sl. Description of goods Point of levy Rate of tax No. ------------------------------------------------------------------------ (1) (2) (3) (4) ------------------------------------------------------------------------ 1. All liquors, other than (a) At every 50 paise in toddy and arrack. point of the rupee sale other than at the point of last sale in the State. (b) At the 10 paise in point of the rupee last sale in the State 2. Photographic and other At every point 16 paise in cameras and enlargers, of sale in the the rupee lenses, films and plates, State paper and cloth and other parts and accessories required for use therewith. 3. All clocks, time-pieces and -do- 16 paise in watches and parts thereof. the rupee 4. Iron and steel safes, cash At every point 16 paise in boxes, almirahs, wardrobes of sale in the the rupee and cabinets. State 4A. Furniture -do- 16 paise in the rupee 5. All hosiery goods other At every point 16 paise in than those made wholly of of sale in the the rupee cotton. State 5A. Hosiery goods made wholly -do- 8 paise in of cotton. the rupee 5B. Readymade garments -do- 8 paise in the rupee 6. All kinds of electrical -do- 16 paise in goods, instruments, the rupee apparatus and appliances (other than articles of plastic and those specifically mentioned elsewhere, including) - (i) wires, holders, plugs, switches, electrical earthenware and porcelain-ware; (ii) casings, cappings, reapers, bends, junction boxes, meter boxes, switch-boxes, meter-boards and switch-boards; (iii) electrical fans, lighting bulbs, torches, fluorescent tubes and other fittings, like chokes and starters and other parts and accessories thereof; (iv) electrical grinders, mixers, blenders, hair-driers, shavers, washing machines, heaters, cooking-ranges, boilers, ovens, geysers, generators, transformers and parts and accessories thereof; 7. Sheets, cushions, mattresses -do- 16 paise in pillows and other articles the rupee made of rubber, plastic foam, synthetic foam or other similar material. 8. Paints, colours, dry -do- 16 paise in distempers, varnishes and the rupee blanks, cellulose, lacquers, polish pigments, indigo enamels, cement-based water paints, oil bound distemper, water pigments, finishes for leather or plastic emulsion paints, turpentine oil, bale oil, white oil and thinners and also lithographic, printing and duplicating links. 9. Dyes and chemicals -do- 10 paise in the rupee 10. Articles of stainless steel -do- 10 paise in the rupee 11. Timber -do- 12 paise in the rupee 11A. Logs cut into sizes such as -do- 16 paise in beams, rafters and planks. the rupee 12. Rubber products (other than -do- 15 paise in those specifically mentioned the rupee elsewhere) including, - (i) latex foam sponge (ii) Plates, sheets and strips unhardened, whether vulcanised or not and whether combined with any textile material or otherwise; (iii) Unhardened vulcanised rubber used for piping and tubing; (iv) Transmission, conveyor or elevator belts or belting material of vulcanised rubber whether combined with any textile material or otherwise. 13. Water supply and sanitary At every point 15 paise in fittings (other than of sale in the the rupee porcelain and China ware). State 13A. Stoneware pipes -do- 15 paise in the rupee 14. Bolts and nuts threaded or -do- 9 paise in tapped and screws of base the rupee metal or alloys thereof including bolt-ends, screws, studs, screw studding, self tapped screws, screw hooks and screw rings. 14A. All hardware of base metal -do- 10 paise in or alloys, other than those the rupee mentioned above. 15. Staple fibre and yarn -do- 9 paise in the rupee 16. Foot-wear other than plastic -do- 10 paise in foot-wear costing rupees the rupee fifty and above. 17. Plywood, particle board, -do- 15 paise in lamin board, batten board, the rupee hard or soft wall-boards or insulating board and veneered panels, whether or not containing any material other than wood; cellular wood panels, building boards of wood-pulp or of vegetable fibre, whether or not bonded with natural or artificial or reconstituted wood being wood shavings, wood chips, saw-dust, wood flour or other ligneous waste agglomerated with natural or artificial resins or other organic binding substance in sheets, blocks, boards or in any other form and includes flush doors. 18. Glass and glassware, -do- 15 paise in including, - the rupee (i) sheet glass and plate glass; (ii) mirrors; (iii) laboratory glassware; (iv) glass shells, glass globes and chimneys for lamps and lanterns; (v) other glassware including table-ware. 19. Paper of all kind (including At every point 12 paise in paste-board, mill-board, straw of sale in the the rupee board and card-board), that is State to say, - (i) cigarette tissue; (ii) blotting, toilet or target tissue, teleprinted, typewriting, manifold, bank, bond or art paper, chrome paper, tubsized paper, cheque paper, stamp paper, cartridge paper, parchment and coated board (including art board, chrome board and board for playing cards); (iii) printing and writing paper, packing and wrapping paper, straw board and pulp board, including grey board, corrugated board, duplex and triplex boards or other sorts; (iv) all other kinds of paper and paper board not otherwise specifically mentioned above, including carbon paper but excluding cinematographic and photographic paper 20. All kinds of suit-cases, -do- 10 paise in briefcases and vanity bags the rupee ------------------------------------------------------------------------ Provided that for the purpose of liquor at any point of sale other than the first point of sale and the last point of sale, the turnover of the goods liable to tax shall be arrived at by deducting the turnover of such goods on which tax has been levied at the immediately preceding point of sale. Explanation. - For the purpose of entry (1) in this Schedule. (a) 'Point of first sale' shall mean sale of liquor effected by a dealer who manufacture liquor in the State or imports liquor from outside the State to any other dealer or person; (b) 'Point of last sale' shall mean sale of liquor to a person by a dealer who purchased liquor from another dealer in the State. Provided further in respect of goods other than liquor mentioned in this Schedule, tax to be paid at any point of sale other than first point of sale, shall be determined after deducting the tax levied on the turnover of such goods at the immediately preceding point of sale by a registered dealer from the tax leviable on the turnover of the same goods at the point of sale by selling dealer. Explanation. - If in the sale bill issued at the preceding point of sale tax levied is not shown separately, but tax is collected by seller at the preceding point of sale from the buying dealer, for determining the amount of tax levied at the preceding point of sale, for the purpose of this proviso the following formula shall be applied. Rate of tax X Sale price at the preceding point of sale -------------------------------------------------------- 100 + Rate of tax Where the turnover of a dealer is taxable at different rates, the aforesaid formula shall be applied separately in respect of the turnover of each goods liable to tax. Provided also that the turnover of a retail dealer in respect of commodities other than liquor for the relevant assessment year shall be exempt from payment of tax in respect of sales other than first sale within the State of the goods specified in this Schedule. Explanation. - For purposes of item 11 in the case of timber purchased by the forest contractors in the auction of forest coupes conducted by the Forest Department of the State Government and sold by such contractors, the sale by such contractors of such timber in any form or size shall be deemed to be first sale. SEVENTH SCHEDULE GOODS IN RESPECT OF WHICH TAX IS LEVIABLE UNDER SECTION 5. ------------------------------------------------------------------------ Sl. Description of goods Point of levy Rate of tax No. ------------------------------------------------------------------------ (1) (2) (3) (4) ------------------------------------------------------------------------ 1. Goods other than those At the point of 10 paise in specified in First to Sixth first sale the rupee.". Schedules : Provided that a dealer other than a casual trader and an agent of a non-resident dealer whose total turnover for a year is less than rupees two lakhs shall not be liable to pay tax in respect of the goods mentioned in this Schedule. ------------------------------------------------------------------------ 
