Andhra Pradesh General Sales Tax Third Amendment) Act, 2002_Section Preamble--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh An Act Further to Amend the Andhra Pradesh General Sales Tax Act, 1957. Be it enacted by the Legislative Assembly of the State of Andhra Pradesh in the Fifty third Year of the Republic of India as follows:-
Andhra Pradesh General Sales Tax Third Amendment) Act, 2002_Section 1--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh (1) This Act may be called the Andhra Pradesh General Sales Tax Third Amendment) Act, 2002.1 (2) (i) section 2 shall be deemed to have come into force with effect on and from the 1st August, 1996; (ii) section 6 shall be deemed to have come into force with effect on and from the 12th December, 2001; and (iii) the remaining provisions shall come into force on such date as the State Government may, by notification in the Andhra Pradesh Gazette, appoint. Received the assent of the Governor on the 21st December, 2002 and the said assent is hereby first published on the 23rd December, 2002 in the Andhra Pradesh Gazette.
Andhra Pradesh General Sales Tax Third Amendment) Act, 2002_Section 2--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh In the Andhra Pradesh General Sales Tax Act), 1957 (hereinafter referred to as the principal Act), in section 2, in in sub-section (1), in clause (e), in Explanation IV, for the words “each of the following persons and bodies who sells or dispose of , the words "each of the following persons and bodies whether or not in the course of business who sells or dispose of', shall be substituted.
Andhra Pradesh General Sales Tax Third Amendment) Act, 2002_Section 3--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh In section 5G of the principal Act, after sub-section(3), the following sub-section shall be added, namely:- “(4) Nothing contained in sub-section (i) shall apply to a dealer, who purchases or receives goods from outside the State for the purpose of using such goods in the execution of works contract.”
Andhra Pradesh General Sales Tax Third Amendment) Act, 2002_Section 4--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh In section 13C of the principal Act, in sub-section (3),- (i) in clause (a), for the expression “Rs. 250/-”, the expression “Rs. 500/- (rupees five hundred)”, shall be substituted. (ii) in clause (b), for the expression “Rs. 1,000/-”, the expression “Rs. 3000/- (rupees three thousand)”, shall be substituted.
Andhra Pradesh General Sales Tax Third Amendment) Act, 2002_Section 5--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh In section 16C of the principal Act, for the words “any amount of tax, penalty, interest”, the words “any amount of tax Government loan extended to the dealer due to treating deferred tax as deemed to have been paid, penalty, interest”, shall be substituted,
Andhra Pradesh General Sales Tax Third Amendment) Act, 2002_Section 6--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh In the First Schedule to the principal Act, in item 32, in column (3) for the words “at the point of last sale in the Stale”, the words “At the point of first sale in (he State”, shall be substituted,
Andhra Pradesh General Sales Tax Third Amendment) Act, 2002_Section 7--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh In the Third Schedule to the principal Act,~ (i) in item 2, in column (3), for the words “At the point of first sale in the State”, the words “At every point of sale in the Slate”, shall be substituted; (ii) in item 2A, in column (3), for the words “At the point of first sale in the State”, the words “At every point of sale in the Slate”, shall be substituted; (iii) after Explanation IV, the following Explanation, shall be added; namely;- “Explanation V:- For the purpose of items 2 and 2Am, tax to be paid at any point of sale other than first point of sale, shall be determined after deducting the tax levied on the turnover of the same goods, at the immediately preceding point of sale”. (K.G. Shankar), Secretary to Government. Legislative Affairs & Justice (FAC), Law Department. 
