Andhra Pradesh Sports Authorities (Amendment) Act, 1996_Section Preamble--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh An Act to amend the Andhra Pradesh Sports Authorities Act, 1988 . Be it enacted by the Legislative Assembly of the State of Andhra Pradesh in the Forty-sixth Year of the Republic of India as follows:-
Andhra Pradesh Sports Authorities (Amendment) Act, 1996_Section 1--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh (1) This Act may be called the Andhra Pradesh Sports Authorities (Amendment) Act, 1996.1 (2) It shall be deemed to have come into force with effect from the 16th November, 1995. Received the assent of the Governor on the 16th January, 1996
Andhra Pradesh Sports Authorities (Amendment) Act, 1996_Section 2--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh In the Andhra Pradesh Sports Authorities Act, 1988 (hereinafter referred to as the principal Act) for section 13 including the marginal heading thereof, the following shall be substituted, namely:- "13. Term of office of the Chairman and other Members:-The Chairman and every member of the Sports Authority and the members of the District Sports Authority and the Mandal Sports Authority, other than ex-officio members, shall hold office during the pleasure of the Government. 13A.Filling up of casual vacancies and conduct of meetings:-The filling up of casual vacancies and the procedure to. be followed at the meeting of the State Sports Authority, the District Sports Authority and the Mandal Sports Authority shall be such as may be prescribed."
Andhra Pradesh Sports Authorities (Amendment) Act, 1996_Section 3--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh (1) Notwithstanding anything contained in the principal Act and the rules, orders, bye-laws or regulations made there under, the Chairman and every member other than ex-officio members holding office before the commencement of this Act shall cease to hold such office forthwith. (2) On such cessation, it shall be competent for the Government to reconstitute the. State Sports Authority, the District Sports Authority and the Mandal Sports Authority in accordance with the provisions of the principal Act.
Andhra Pradesh Sports Authorities (Amendment) Act, 1996_Section 4--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh The provisions of this Act shall have effect notwithstanding anything contained in any other law for the time being in force, and accordingly- (a) no suit or other proceeding shall be instituted, maintained or continued in any Court for the continuance of the Chairman and any member of the State Sports Authority or any member of the District Sports Authority and the Mandal Sports Authority the ceased to hold office under this Act; (b) no Court shall enforce any decree or order directing the continuance of such chairman or the members of such Authority; and (c) all proceedings pending in any Court claiming such continuance abate.
Andhra Pradesh Sports Authorities (Amendment) Act, 1996_Section 5--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh (1) If any difficulty arises giving effect to the provisions of the Act, the Government may make such order , difficulties not inconsistent with the provisions of this Act as appear to them to be necessary or expedient for the purpose a moving the difficulty. (2) Every order made under this section shall be laid before the Legislative Assembly of the State, as soon as may be, but in any case during the next session of the Legislative Assembly following the date of making such order.
Andhra Pradesh Sports Authorities (Amendment) Act, 1996_Section 6--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh The Andhra Pradesh Sports Authorities (Amendment) Ordinance, 1995 is hereby repealed. (G. Bhavani Prasad), Secretary to Government, Legislative Affairs, Law Department. 
