Andhra Pradesh College Service Commission (Amendment) Act, 1990_Section Preamble--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh An Act to Amend the Andhra Pradesh College Service Commission Act, 1985. Be it enacted by the Legislative Assembly of the State of Andhra Pradesh in the Forty-first Year of the Republic of India as follows:-
Andhra Pradesh College Service Commission (Amendment) Act, 1990_Section 1--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh This Act may be called the Andhra Pradesh College Service Commission (Amendment) Act, 19901 . Received the assent of the Governor on the 5th December, 1990
Andhra Pradesh College Service Commission (Amendment) Act, 1990_Section 2--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh In the Andhra Pradesh College Service Commission Act, 1985 (hereinafter referred to as the Principal Act), in sub-section (2) of section 1, clause (a) shall be omitted.
Andhra Pradesh College Service Commission (Amendment) Act, 1990_Section 3--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh In section 2 of the principal Act,- (a) in clause (b), after item (ii), the following items shall be added, namely. "(iii) established and administered or maintained by the Central Government, (iv) established and administered or maintained by any University established by laws. (v) giving, providing or imparting only religious instructions, but not any other instructions; and (vi) a private college whether receiving aid from Government or not."] (b) clause (g) shall be omitted.
Andhra Pradesh College Service Commission (Amendment) Act, 1990_Section 4--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh Notwithstanding anything contained in the principal Act as amended by the Andhra Pradesh college Service Commission (Amendment) Act, 1990, the College Service Commission shall be competent to process the selection of teachers to private colleges whether receiving aid from the Government or not and complete the process of such selection in respect of the vacancies in such colleges already notified for recruitment prior to the commencement of this Act. (P.V. Vidya Sagar), Secretary to Government, Law and Legislative Affairs, Law Department. 
