Andhra Pradesh Municipal Laws (Second Amendment) Act, 2000_Section Preamble--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh An Act further to amend the Andhra Pradesh Municipalities Act, 1965 and the Hyderabad Municipal corporations Act, 1955. Be it enacted by the Legislative Assembly of the State of Andhra Pradesh in the Fifty-first Year of the Republic of India, as follows:-
Andhra Pradesh Municipal Laws (Second Amendment) Act, 2000_Section 1--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh (1) This Act may be called the Andhra Pradesh Municipal Laws , (Second Amendment) Act, 20001 . (2) It shall come into force on such date as the State Government may by notification, appoint. The following Act of the Andhra Pradesh Legislative Assembly received the assent of the Governor on the 27th April, 2000 and the said assent is hereby first published on the 28th April, 2000 in the Andhra Pradesh Gazette for General information
Andhra Pradesh Municipal Laws (Second Amendment) Act, 2000_Section 2--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh In the Andhra Pradesh Municipalities Act, 1965 in section 5, in sub-section (2)for clause (v), the following clause shall be substituted, namely:- "(v) Persons having special knowledge or experience in Municipal Administraion co-opted by the Municipal Council whose number shall be one in the case of a Nagar Panchayat two in the case of a Municipality having population of less than three lakhs and three in the Case of a Municipality having a population of three lakhs or more: Provided that in the case of a Municipality which has more than one co-opted member, one member shall be a woman: Provided further that the member co-opted under this clause shall have the right to speak in and otherwise to take part in the meetings of Nagar Panchayat or the Municipality, as the case may be, but shall not have the right to vote.".
Andhra Pradesh Municipal Laws (Second Amendment) Act, 2000_Section 3--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh In the Hyderabad Municipal Corporations Act, 1955 in section 5, in sub- section (1B), for the opening para, the following shall be substituted, namely;- (1B) In addition to the members referred to in sub-sections (1) and (1A) five persons of whom two shall be women having special knowledge or experience in Municipal Administration co-opted by the Corporation shall be ex-officio members." .
Andhra Pradesh Municipal Laws (Second Amendment) Act, 2000_Section 4--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh The amendments made to the Hyderabad Municipal Corporations Act, 1955 by section 3,- shall extend to and shall; apply also to the Visakhapatnam and Vijayawada Municipal Corporations and also to other corporations constituted under the Andhra Pradesh Municipal Corporations Act, 1994. (G. Bhavani Prasad), Secretary to Government, Legislative Affairs and Justice. Law Department. 
