Andhra Pradesh Municipal Laws (Amendment) Act, 1997_Section Preamble--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh An Act further to amend the Andhra Pradesh Municipalities Act 1965.The Hyderabad Municipal Corporations Act, 1955 and The Andhra Pradesh Municipal Corporations Act, 1994. Be it enacted by the Legislative Assembly of the State of Andhra Pradesh in the Forty-eighth Year of the Republic of India, as follows:-
Andhra Pradesh Municipal Laws (Amendment) Act, 1997_Section 1--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh (1)This Act may be called the Andhra Pradesh Municipal Laws (Amendment) Act, 19971 . (2). It shall come into force on such date as the Government may by notification appoint. Received the assent of the Governor on 23rd April, 1997
Andhra Pradesh Municipal Laws (Amendment) Act, 1997_Section 2--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh In the Andhra Pradesh Municipalities Act, 1965, in section 21, for sub- section (1), the following sub-section shall be-substituted, namely:- "21(1) Casual vacancies of ward Members:- A casual - vacancy In the office of the Ward Member shall be filled at a casual election which shall be fixed by the election authority to take place twice in a year, one in the month of April and another* in the month of October; Provided that no casual election shall be held to fill a vacancy occurring within three months before the date on which the term of office of the Ward Member expires by efflux of time and that such vacancy shall be filled at the next ordinary election.
Andhra Pradesh Municipal Laws (Amendment) Act, 1997_Section 3--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh In the Hyderabad Municipal Corporations Act, 1955, in section 7, for sub-section (2), the following sub-section shall be substituted, namely:- (2) A casual vacancy in the office of a Ward Member shall be filled at a casual election which shall, be fixed by the election authority to take place twice in a year one in the month of April and another in the month of October; and every member so elected shall enter ‘ upon office forthwith but shall hold office only so long as the member in whose, place he is elected would have been entitled to hold office if the vacancy has not occurred: Provided that no casual election shall be held to fill a vacancy occurring within three months before the date on which the term of office of the Ward Members expires by efflux of time and that such vacancy shall be filled at the next general elections of the Corporation." .
Andhra Pradesh Municipal Laws (Amendment) Act, 1997_Section 4--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh In the Andhra Pradesh Municipal Corporations Act, 1994 in section 8, for Sub-section (1), the following sub-section shall be substituted, namely:- "(1) A casual vacancy in the office of a member shall be filled at a casual election which shall be fixed by the election authority to take place twice in a year, one in the month of April and another in the month of October: Provided that no casual election shall be held to fill a casual vacancy occurring within, three months before the date on which the term of office of the member expires by efflux of time and that such vacancy shall be filled at the next general elections of the Corporation."
Andhra Pradesh Municipal Laws (Amendment) Act, 1997_Section 5--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh The amendments made to the Hyderabad Municipal Corporations Act, 1955 by section 3 shall extend to and shall apply also to the Visakhapatnam and Vijayawada Municipal Corporations. (G. Bhavani Prasad) Secretary to Government; Legislative Affairs & Justice, Law Department. 
