Andhra Pradesh Payment of- Salaries and Pension and Removal of Disqualifications (Amendment) Act, 1998_Section Preamble--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh An Act Further to Amend the Andhra Pradesh Payment Of Salaries And Pension And Removal Of Disqualifications Act, 1953. Be it enacted by the Legislative Assembly of the State of Andhra Pradesh in the Forty-ninth Year of the Republic of India, as follows:-
Andhra Pradesh Payment of- Salaries and Pension and Removal of Disqualifications (Amendment) Act, 1998_Section 1--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh (1) This Act may be called the Andhra Pradesh Payment of- Salaries and Pension and Removal of Disqualifications (Amendment) Act, 1998.1 (2) Section 4 shall be deemed to have come into force on the 1st April, 1988 and sections 2 and 5 shall be deemed to have come into force on the 25th July, 1995 and remaining provision shall come into force at once. Received the assent of the Governor on the 19-05-1998
Andhra Pradesh Payment of- Salaries and Pension and Removal of Disqualifications (Amendment) Act, 1998_Section 2--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh In the Andhra Pradesh Payment of Salaries and Pension and Removal of Dis-qualifications Act, 1953 thereinafter ref erred to as the principal Act), for section 9-B, the following shall be substituted, namely:- "9B. Advances to Ministers, Deputy Ministers, Chief Whip in the Assembly, Whips in the Assembly, Speaker and Deputy Speaker for purchase of motor cars:- Any Minister, Deputy Minister, Chief Whip or Whip in the Assembly, the Speaker or the Deputy Speaker may be paid by way of a repayable advance a sum of money as may be prescribed for the purchase of motor car in order that he may be able to discharge conveniently and efficiently the duties of his office.”
Andhra Pradesh Payment of- Salaries and Pension and Removal of Disqualifications (Amendment) Act, 1998_Section 3--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh In the principal Act, in section 11,in sub-section (1-B), for the words, “either singly or together with any other person", the words "either singly or together with the spouse or With any other person" shall be substituted.
Andhra Pradesh Payment of- Salaries and Pension and Removal of Disqualifications (Amendment) Act, 1998_Section 4--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh In the principal Act, in section 11-B, in sub-section (1), for the existing -proviso, the following proviso shall be substituted, namely:- "Provided that where any such member does not use the accommodation provided by the State Government under this subsection, such member shall be paid an accommodation allowance at the rate of rupees two thousand per mensum."
Andhra Pradesh Payment of- Salaries and Pension and Removal of Disqualifications (Amendment) Act, 1998_Section 5--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh For section 11-E of the principal Act, the following shall be substituted, namely:- "11E. Advance to Members of the Legislative Assembly for purchase of motor car:-A Member of the Legislative Assembly may be paid by way of repayable advance a sum of money as may be prescribed for the purchase of a motor car.". (G. Bhavani Prasad), Secretary to Government, Legislative Affairs & Justice Law Department. 
