Andhra Pradesh Municipal Laws (Third Amendment) Act, 2000_Section Preamble--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh An Act Further to amend the Andhra Pradesh Municipalities Act, 1965 and the Andhra Pradesh Municipal Laws (Second Amendment) Act, 1994. Be it enacted by the Legislative Assembly of the State OF Andhra. Pradesh in the Fifty-first Year of the Republic of India as follows:-
Andhra Pradesh Municipal Laws (Third Amendment) Act, 2000_Section 1--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh (1) This Act say be called the Andhra Pradesh Municipal Laws (Third Amendment) Act, 20001 . (2) It shall be deemed to have come into force on and from 27th September, 1998. Received the assent of the Governor on the 20th September, 2000 and the said assent is hereby first published on the 3rd October, 2000 in the Andhra Pradesh Gazette
Andhra Pradesh Municipal Laws (Third Amendment) Act, 2000_Section 2--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh In the Andhra Pradesh Municipalities Act, 1965 (hereinafter referred to as the principal Act), in section 62-A, in sub-section (1),- (i) for the words "which shall not exceed two and half years", the words "which shall not exceed four and half years", shall be-substituted; (ii) in the proviso, for the words "beyond two and half years", the words beyond four and half years", and for the words "in the aggregate exceed six and half years", the words "in the aggregate exceed eight and half years" shall respectively be substituted.
Andhra Pradesh Municipal Laws (Third Amendment) Act, 2000_Section 3--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh Notwithstanding anything contained in the principal Act, any Judgment, decree or order of a Court, or any other authority, every action taken or thing done by the Special Officer in exercise of the powers conferred under section 62-A of the principal Act shall not be deemed to be invalid or ever to have become invalid by reason of the fact that such actions were taken or such things were done by such Special Officer when the power in this behalf had not been entrusted to him under the provisions of the said principal Act and accordingly any action taken or thing done by such Special Officer, shall for all purposes, be deemed to be and deemed to have always been taken or done in accordance with the provisions of the principal Act as amended by this Act.
Andhra Pradesh Municipal Laws (Third Amendment) Act, 2000_Section 4--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh In the Andhra Pradesh Municipal Laws (Second Amendment) Act, 1994, in section 5, for the words not exceeding four and half years", the ‘words "not exceeding six and half years", shall be substituted.
Andhra Pradesh Municipal Laws (Third Amendment) Act, 2000_Section 5--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh The Andhra Pradesh Municipal Laws (Second Amendment) Ordinance, 2000 is hereby repealed. (G. Bhavani Prasad), Secretary to Government, Legislative Affairs & Justice, Law Department. 
