Andhra Pradesh Societies Registration (Andhra Pradesh Amendment) Act, 1984_Section Preamble--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh An Act further to amend the Societies Registration Act, 1860 and the Andhra Pradesh (Telangana Area) Public Societies Registration Act, 1350 F. Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Andhra Pradesh in the Thirty-fifth Year of the Republic of India as follows:
Andhra Pradesh Societies Registration (Andhra Pradesh Amendment) Act, 1984_Section 1--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh (1) This Act may be called the Andhra Pradesh Societies Registration (Andhra Pradesh Amendment) Act, 1984.1 (2) It shall be deemed to have come into force on the 2nd December, 1983. Received the assent of the Governor on the 21st March 1984
Andhra Pradesh Societies Registration (Andhra Pradesh Amendment) Act, 1984_Section 2--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh In the Societies Registration Act, 1860 in application to the State of Andhra Pradesh. (1) after the preamble, the following shall be inserted, namely -"Chapter-I General." (2) after Section 20, the following shall be inserted, namely:- "Chapter II Special provisions in respect of societies financed wholly or substantially from the funds of the Government 21.Definitions - In this Chapter: (i) "Government" means the State Government of Andhra Pradesh; (ii) "Society" means a Society wholly or substantially financed from out of the funds of the Government. 22. Chapter to override other provisions of the Act - The provisions of this Chapter shall have effect notwithstanding anything contained in Chapter I of this Act or any other law for the time being in force. 23. Dissolution of Society - (1) It shall be competent for the Government, by order and for reasons to be recorded in writing to dissolve a society with effect from such date as may be specified in the order: Provided that the Government shall before issuing an order dissolving a Society, communicate to the governing body of the society the proposal to dissolve, fix a reasonable time for the governing body for making a representation against the proposal and consider its representation, if any: Provided further that the Government may, after settling the liabilities, if any, of the dissolved Society, make over its properties, whether movable or immovable to any other Society having identical or similar objects, and where there is no such Society, the property shall vest in such officer or authority as may be specified by the Government in this behalf until a Society having identical or similar object is formed where after the properties shall stand transferred to such Society. (2) On the date fixed for the dissolution of a Society under sub-section (1), the registration of the Society shall stand cancelled and the Society shall cease to exist as a corporate body. 24.Power to divide or amalgamate Societies - (1) Where, in the opinion of the Government it is necessary to divide a Society or amalgamate two or more Societies, they may, by order and from a date fixed therein direct the division or amalgamation, as the case may be, and issue the necessary certificates of registration: Provided that the Government shall before issuing an order either dividing a Society or amalgamating two or more Societies, communicate to the governing body or bodies concerned the proposal to divide or as the case may be to amalgamate the Society or Societies, fix a reasonable time for the governing body or bodies for making a representation against the proposal and consider the representations, if any, received from the body or bodies. (2) Where a Society is divided or where two or more Societies are amalgamated, the registration of the Society or Societies divided or as the case may be amalgamated shall stand cancelled and the concerned Society or Societies shall cease to exist as a corporate body or bodies. (3) The order referred to in sub-section (1) shall contain the particulars of constitution, authorities, property, rights and interests, liabilities, duties and obligations of the Society or Societies concerned."
Andhra Pradesh Societies Registration (Andhra Pradesh Amendment) Act, 1984_Section 3--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh In the Andhra Pradesh (Telangana Area) Public Societies Registration Act, 1350 F. (1) after Section 1, the following shall be inserted, namely: "Chapter-I - General" (2) after Section 15, the following shall be inserted, namely:- "Chapter II Special provisions in respect of Societies financed wholly or substantially from the funds of the Government 16. Definitions - In this Chapter- (i) "Government" means the State Government of Andhra Pradesh; (ii) "Society" means a Society either wholly or substantially financed from out of the funds of the Government. 17. Chapter to override other provisions of the Act - The provisions of this Chapter shall have effect notwithstanding anything contained in Chapter I of this Act or any other law for the time being in force. 18. Dissolution of Society - (1) It shall be competent for the Government, by order and for reasons to be in writing, to dissolve a Society with effect from such date as may be specified in the order: Provided that the Government shall before issuing an order dissolving a Society communicate to the Managing Committee of the Society the proposal to dissolve, fix a reasonable time for the Managing Committee for making a representation against the proposal and consider its representation, if any: Provided further that the Government may, after settling the liabilities, if any, of the dissolved Society, make over its properties, whether movable or immovable to any other Society having identical or similar object, and where there is no such Society, the properties shall vest in such officer or authority as may be specified by the Government in this behalf until a Society having identical or similar objects is formed where after the properties shall stand transferred to such Society. (2) On the date fixed for the dissolution of a Society under subsection (1) the registration of the Society shall stand cancelled and the Society shall cease to exist as a corporate body. 19.Power to divide or amalgamate Societies - Where, in the opinion of the State Government it is necessary to divide a Society or amalgamate two or more Societies they may, by order and from a date fixed therein direct the division or amalgamation, as the case may be and issue the necessary certificates of registration: Provided that the Government shall before issuing an order either dividing a Society or amalgamating two or more Societies, communicate to the Managing Committee or Committees concerned the proposal to divide or as the case may be, to amalgamate the Society or Societies, fix a reasonable time for the Managing Committee or Committees for making a representation against the proposal and consider the representations if any received from the Committee or Committees. (2) Where a Society is divided or where two or more Societies are amalgamated, the registration of the Society or Societies divided or as the case may be amalgamated shall stand cancelled and the concerned Society or Societies shall cease to exist as corporate bodies. (3) The order referred to in sub-section (1) shall contain the particulars, of constitution, authorities, property, rights and interests, liabilities, duties and obligations of the Society or Societies concerned.
Andhra Pradesh Societies Registration (Andhra Pradesh Amendment) Act, 1984_Section 4--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh The Andhra Pradesh Societies Registration (Andhra Pradesh Second Amendment) Ordinance, 1983 is hereby repealed. Please Note -The amendments made by this Act incorporated in Main Acts. 
