Andhra Pradesh Charitable and Hindu Religious Institutions and Endowments (Amendment) Act, 2002_Section Preamble--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh An Act further to amend the Andhra Pradesh Charitable and Hindu Religious Institutions and Endowments Act, 1987. Be it enacted by the Legislative Assembly of the State of Andhra Pradesh in the Fifty third Year of the Republic of India as follows:-
Andhra Pradesh Charitable and Hindu Religious Institutions and Endowments (Amendment) Act, 2002_Section 1--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh (1) This Act may be called the Andhra Pradesh Charitable and Hindu Religious Institutions and Endowments (Amendment) Act, 20021 . (2) It shall be deemed to have come into force on the 26th August, 2002. The following Act of the Andhra Pradesh Legislative Assembly received the assent of the Governor on the 21st December, 2002 and the said assent is hereby first published on the 23rd December, 2002 in the Andhra Pradesh Gazette for general information
Andhra Pradesh Charitable and Hindu Religious Institutions and Endowments (Amendment) Act, 2002_Section 2--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh In the Andhra Pradesh Charitable and Hindu Religious Institutions and Endowments Act, 1987 (hereinafter referred to as the principal Act), in section 17, in sub-section (1), for the proviso, the following shall be substituted, namely:- "Provided that the founder or one of the members of the family of the founder, if qualified as prescribed shall be appointed as one of the Trustees. Explanation I:- 'Founder' means a person who has founded an Institution or Endowment and recognized as such by the authority competent to appoint Trustees under section 15. Explanation II:- 'Member of the family of the founder' means children, grand children and so in agnatic line of succession for the time being in force and declared or recognized as such by the relevant appointing authority. Explanation-III:- Those Persons who rounded temples by collecting donations partly or fully from the public as well as those who founded them on public lands shall not be recognized as founder trustees by any means."
Andhra Pradesh Charitable and Hindu Religious Institutions and Endowments (Amendment) Act, 2002_Section 3--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh In section 19 of the principal Act, in sub-section (1), to clause (k), the following proviso shall be added, namely:- "Provided that nothing in this clause shall apply to the founder or a member of the family of the founder who has been appointed as Trustee."
Andhra Pradesh Charitable and Hindu Religious Institutions and Endowments (Amendment) Act, 2002_Section 4--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh For section 20 of the principal Act, the following shall be substituted, namely:- "20. Chairman of the Board of Trustees:-(1) (a) In the case of Charitable and Religious Institution or endowment for which a Board of Trustees is constituted under section 15, the members of the Board of Trustees shall, within such period not exceeding sixty days and in such manner as may be prescribed, elect from amongst themselves, a Chairman; and if no Chairman is so elected within the prescribed period the Government in the case of a Board of Trustees constituted under clause (a) of subsection (1) of section 15 and the commissioner in the case of any other Board of Trustees shall nominate one of the members as Chairman. (b) Where the founder or a member of the family of the founder is appointed as Trustee, he shall be the Chairman of the Board of Trustees. (2) A Chairman elected or nominated under clause (a) of sub-section (1) or who becomes a Chairman under clause (b) shall hold office so long as he continues to be the member of the Board of Trustees."
Andhra Pradesh Charitable and Hindu Religious Institutions and Endowments (Amendment) Act, 2002_Section 5--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh In section 75 of the principal Act in sub-section (1), the words "for a term exceeding six years" shall be omitted.
Andhra Pradesh Charitable and Hindu Religious Institutions and Endowments (Amendment) Act, 2002_Section 6--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh In section 82 of the principal Act,- (i) in sub-section (2), for the proviso and the Explanation thereof, the following shall be substituted, namely:- "Provided that if such small and marginal farmers who are not able to purchase the land will continue as tenants provided, if they agree to pay at least two third of the market rent for similarly placed lands as lease amount. Explanation:- For the purpose of this sub-section 'landless poor person' means a person whose total extent of land held by him either as owner or as cultivating tenant or as both does not exceed 1,011715 hectares (two and half acres) of wet land or 2.023430 hectares (five acres) of dry land and whose monthly income other than from such lands does not exceed thousand rupees per mensum or twelve thousand rupees per annum. However, those of the tenants who own residential property exceeding two hundred square yards in Urban Area shall not be considered as landless poor for the purpose of purchase of endowments property." (ii) after sub-section (4), the following shall be added, namely:- "(5) The provisions of the Andhra Pradesh (Andhra Area) Tenancy Act, 1956 and the Andhra Pradesh (Telangana Area) Tenancy and Agricultural Lands Act, 1950 shall not apply to any lease of land belonging to or given or endowed for the purpose of any charitable or religious institutions or endowment as defined in this Act."
Andhra Pradesh Charitable and Hindu Religious Institutions and Endowments (Amendment) Act, 2002_Section 7--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh In section 87 of the principal Act, in sub-section (1) after clause (g), the following shall be added, namely:- "(h) whether a person is a founder or a member from
Andhra Pradesh Charitable and Hindu Religious Institutions and Endowments (Amendment) Act, 2002_Section 8--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh In section 107 of the principal Act, in sub-section (3), for the words "five years", the words "three years", shall be substituted.
Andhra Pradesh Charitable and Hindu Religious Institutions and Endowments (Amendment) Act, 2002_Section 9--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh For section 123 of the principal Act, the following shall be substituted, namely;- 123. Right of Pre-emption:-No. person owning properties on Tirumala Hills shall, without the prior permission of the Executive Officer of the Tirumala Tirupathi Devasthanams alienate the same by way of sale, exchange, mortgage or lease, if he intends to so alienate he shall apply to the Executive Officer for permission with full details of the transaction and the parties involved, The Tirumala Tirupathi Devasthanams shall have a right of pre-emption. If Tirumala Tirupathi Devasthanams desires to exercise this right on the terms indicated by the applicant, being those offered to the third party, the applicant shall enter into the necessary contract with Tirumala Tirupathi Devasthanams.
Andhra Pradesh Charitable and Hindu Religious Institutions and Endowments (Amendment) Act, 2002_Section 10--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh The Andhra Pradesh Charitable and Hindu Religious Institutions and Endowments (Amendment) Ordinance, 2002 is hereby repealed. K. G. Shankar, Secretary to Government, Legislative Affairs & Justice (FAC), Law Department. 
