Andhra Pradesh Excise and the Andhra Pradesh (Regulation of Trade in Indian made Foreign Liquor, Foreign Liquor) Acts (Amendment) Act, 2012_Section Preamble--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh An Act further to amend the Andhra Pradesh Excise Act, 1968 and the Andhra Pradesh (Regulation of Trade in Indian made Foreign Liquor, Foreign Liquor) Act, 1993. Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Andhra Pradesh in the Sixty-third Year of the Republic of India as follows:
Andhra Pradesh Excise and the Andhra Pradesh (Regulation of Trade in Indian made Foreign Liquor, Foreign Liquor) Acts (Amendment) Act, 2012_Section 1--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh (1) This Act may be called the Andhra Pradesh Excise and the Andhra Pradesh (Regulation of Trade in Indian made Foreign Liquor, Foreign Liquor) Acts (Amendment) Act, 2012. (2) It extends to the whole of the State of Andhra Pradesh. (3) (i) clause 2 shall be deemed to have come into force with effect on and from the 21st July, 1993. (ii) clause 3 shall come into force on such date as the State Government may, by notification, appoint;
Andhra Pradesh Excise and the Andhra Pradesh (Regulation of Trade in Indian made Foreign Liquor, Foreign Liquor) Acts (Amendment) Act, 2012_Section 2--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh After section 4 of the Andhra Pradesh (Regulation of Trade in Indian made Foreign Liquor, Foreign Liquor) Act, 1993, the following sections shall be inserted, namely:- 4-A. "Levy of Trade margin, Privilege fee etc - The Government shall from time to time, specify the Trade margin, Privilege Fee or any other levy, by whatever name called, to be collected by the Andhra Pradesh Beverages Corporation Limited from the holders of licences. 4.B. Remittance to the Government - The Amount realized under section 4A, being the income of the Government, shall be remitted by the Andhra Pradesh Beverages Corporation Limited to the Government in the manner specified by the Government. 4-C. Privilege fee etc., under sections 23(1), 23-A and 23-B of the A.P Excise Act to be the income of the Government - Notwithstanding anything contained in this Act, the Andhra Pradesh Excise Act, 1968 and the rules made there under or any order issued by the Government or the Commissioner of Prohibition and Excise, all amounts paid by the Corporation from 21-07-1993 to the Commissioner of Prohibition and Excise or the Government as privilege Fee or Special Privilege Fee or any other fee or cess, by whatever name called, in consideration of the privilege conferred on the Corporation, as per the provisions of sections 23(1), 23-A and 23-B of the Andhra Pradesh Excise Act, 1968 shall be deemed to be and always deemed to have been the income of the Government and due payment for the relevant years in terms of section 4B".
Andhra Pradesh Excise and the Andhra Pradesh (Regulation of Trade in Indian made Foreign Liquor, Foreign Liquor) Acts (Amendment) Act, 2012_Section 3--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh In the Andhra Pradesh Excise Act, 1968, section 23-A and section 23-B shall be omitted. A. Shankar Narayana, Secretary to Government, Legislative Affairs & Justice, Law Department. 
