Andhra Pradesh Tax on Professions, Trades, Callings and Employments (Amendment) Act, 2003_Section Preamble--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh An Act further to amend the Andhra Pradesh Tax on Professions, Trades, Callings and Employments Act, 1987. Be it enacted by the Legislative Assembly of the State of Andhra Pradesh in the Fifty-fourth year of the Republic of India, as follows:-
Andhra Pradesh Tax on Professions, Trades, Callings and Employments (Amendment) Act, 2003_Section 1--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh (1) This Act may be called the Andhra Pradesh Tax on Professions, Trades, Callings and Employments (Amendment) Act, 2003.1 (2) It extends to the whole of the State of Andhra Pradesh; (3) It shall come into force on such date as the Government may, by notification, appoint. Received the assent of the Governor on the 07th April, 2003
Andhra Pradesh Tax on Professions, Trades, Callings and Employments (Amendment) Act, 2003_Section 2--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh In the Andhra Pradesh Tax on Professions, Trades, Callings and Employments Act, 1987 (hereinafter referred to as the principal Act), in section 18,- (i) in sub-section (1), for the words "the Commissioner may,", the words "the Commissioner or the Deputy Commissioner (CT) or the Commercial Tax Officer or the Deputy Commercial Tax Officer or the Profession Tax Officer may,", shall be substituted; (ii) in sub-section (2), for the words "The Commissioner may", the words "The Commissioner or the Deputy Commissioner (CT) or the Commercial Tax Officer or the Deputy Commercial Tax Officer or the Profession Tax Officer may", shall be substituted;
Andhra Pradesh Tax on Professions, Trades, Callings and Employments (Amendment) Act, 2003_Section 3--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh After section 18 of the principal Act, the following new section shall be inserted, namely:- "18A.Special powers of Deputy Commissioner under the Revenue Recovery Act:- (1) A Deputy Commissioner shall have the powers of a Collector under the Andhra Pradesh Revenue Recovery Act, 1864 for the purpose of recovery of any amount due under this Act. (2) Subject to the provisions of subsection (3), all Deputy Commercial Tax Officers shall, for the purposes of recovery of any amount due under this Act, have the powers of the Mandal Revenue Officer under the Andhra Pradesh Rent and Revenue Sales Act, 1839 for the sale of property distained for any amount due under this Act. (3) Notwithstanding anything contained in the Andhra Pradesh Rent and Revenue Sales Act, 1839, the Deputy Commercial Tax Officer in exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (2) shall be subject to the control and superintendence of the Deputy Commissioner."
Andhra Pradesh Tax on Professions, Trades, Callings and Employments (Amendment) Act, 2003_Section 4--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh In the First Schedule of the principal Act,- (a) in SI.No.14, in column (3), for the expression "Rs. 750/- P.A.", the expression "Rs. 750/- per each vehicle", shall be substituted; (b) for SI. No. 20 (I), and the entries relating thereto, the following items shall be substituted, namely:- "20 (I). Educational Institutions and Tutorial Colleges or Institutes other than those owned by the State or Central Government as follows:- (i) Tutorials running classes up to 7th standard; Rs. 750/- PA (ii) Tutorials running classes up to 10th standard; Rs.1,500/- PA (iii) Junior Colleges and all other Educational Institutions and Tutorial Colleges running Classes above 10th standard; Rs. 2,500/- PA." (c) In SI.No.20 (P), in column (2), in item (b), after the word "agents", the words "other than holders of permits of transport vehicles" shall be added. (K.G. Shankar), Secretary to Government, Legislative Affairs & Justice (FAC), Law Department. 
