Andhra Pradesh Infrastructure Development Enabling (Amendment) Act, 2016_Section Preamble--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh An Act further to amend the Andhra Pradesh Infrastructure Development Enabling Act, 2001. Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Andhra Pradesh in the Sixty-sixth Year of the Republic of India as follows:-
Andhra Pradesh Infrastructure Development Enabling (Amendment) Act, 2016_Section 1--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh (1) This Act may be called the Andhra Pradesh Infrastructure Development Enabling (Amendment) Act, 2016. (2) It shall be deemed to have come into force with effect on and from the 2nd December, 2015.
Andhra Pradesh Infrastructure Development Enabling (Amendment) Act, 2016_Section 2--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh In the Andhra Pradesh Infrastructure Development Enabling Act, 2001 (hereinafter referred to as the Principal Act), in section 2, after clause (hh), the following clause shall be inserted, namely,- "(hhh) 'project' means a project deemed to have been initiated by the Government or the Government agency or the Local Authority, if (a) total budgetary allocation for development of such project has been made by the Government or the Government Agency or the Local Authority and (b) public announcements calling for bids for development of the project have been issued by the Government or Government Agency or the Local Authority;".
Andhra Pradesh Infrastructure Development Enabling (Amendment) Act, 2016_Section 3--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh In the Principal Act, in section 10, clause (j) shall be omitted.
Andhra Pradesh Infrastructure Development Enabling (Amendment) Act, 2016_Section 4--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh In the principal Act, in Schedule-V, under heading "II. Asset Based Support", in item (i), for sub-item (a), the following shall be substituted, namely,- "(a) Government owned land would be provided at concessional rates or otherwise for projects either,- (i) On a lease hold basis where ownership would revert to the Government within a maximum period of 99 years from the date of grant of lease, or (ii) On free hold basis."
Andhra Pradesh Infrastructure Development Enabling (Amendment) Act, 2016_Section 5--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh The Andhra Pradesh Infrastructure Development Enabling (Amendment) Ordinance, 2015 is hereby repealed. (C. S. S. V. Durga Prasad) Secretary to Government, Law Department. 
