Andhra Pradesh Electricity Duty (Amendment) Act, 2003_Section Preamble--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh An act further to amend the Andhra Pradesh Electricity Duty Act, 1939. Be it enacted by the Legislative Assembly of the State of Andhra Pradesh in the Fifty-fourth Year of the Republic of India as follows:-
Andhra Pradesh Electricity Duty (Amendment) Act, 2003_Section 1--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh (1) This Act may be called the Andhra Pradesh Electricity Duty (Amendment) Act, 2003.1 (2) It shall be deemed to have come into force on the 17th July, 2003. The following Act of the Andhra Pradesh Legislative Assembly received the assent of the Governor on the 22nd 'October, 2003 and the said assent is hereby first, published on the 24th October, 2003 in the Andhra Pradesh Gazette for general information
Andhra Pradesh Electricity Duty (Amendment) Act, 2003_Section 2--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh In the Andhra Pradesh Electricity Duty Act, 1939 (hereinafter referred to as the Principal Act), after section 3A, the following new section shall be inserted, namely:- 3."Levy of duty on certain energy generated and consumed. B:-(1) Every person or a generating company who generates energy and uses for his own purpose shall pay every month to the State Government, a duty calculated at the rate of twenty five paise per unit of energy on and in respect of such energy consumed during the previous month: Provided that no duty shall be leviable in respect of the energy consumed in the auxiliaries of the generating plant. (2) The State Government, may, by notification specify from time to time the minimum aggregate capacity of the generating plant from which the energy generated and used shall attract levy of duty under sub-section(1) thereof. (3) The State Government, may, by notification exempt either permanently or for a specified period any person or a generating company from payment of the whole or part of the duty payable under sub-section(1) subject to such terms and conditions as may be specified in the said notification."
Andhra Pradesh Electricity Duty (Amendment) Act, 2003_Section 3--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh For section 4 of the principal Act, the following shall be substituted, namely,- 4. "Maintenance of books of accounts and submission of returns and installation of meters:- (1) Every person or generating company or a licensee liable to pay duty under section 3 or section 3 B shall maintain the books of accounts in the prescribed form and shall submit the returns showing the units of energy generated and the Units of energy consumed in auxiliaries of a generating plant and the energy consumed for their own purposes, energy sold to the consumers and the amount payable in respect of such energy consumed or sold. as the case may be, to such officer, in such form and at such time as may be prescribed. (2) The energy generated or the energy consumed or sold shall be measured by the energy meters installed at "such point and in such manner as may be prescribed."
Andhra Pradesh Electricity Duty (Amendment) Act, 2003_Section 4--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh The Andhra Pradesh Electricity Duty (Amendment)Ordinance, 2003 is hereby repealed. (K.G Shankar), Secretary to Government Legislative Affairs and Justice (FAC) Law Department 
