Andhra Pradesh (Andhra Area) Land Revenue Assessments (Standardisation) Act, 1956_Section Preamble--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh An Act to standardize the land Revenue Assessments in [Amended by Act 9 of1961 [the Andhra Area of the State of Andhra Pradesh.]1 Whereas it is expedient to standardize the land revenue assessments in the Andhra area of the State of Andhra Pradesh.2 Be it enacted in the Seventh Year of the Republic of India as follows: Amended by AP Act 9 of 1961 Amended by AP Act 9 of 1961
Andhra Pradesh (Andhra Area) Land Revenue Assessments (Standardisation) Act, 1956_Section 1--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh (1) This Act may be called [the Andhra Pradesh (Andhra Area) Land Revenue Assessments (Standardisation) Act, 1956.]1 (2) It extends to the whole of [the Andhra area of the State of Andhra Pradesh.]2 Substituted by A.P. Act 9 of 1961 Amended by AP Act 9 of 1961
Andhra Pradesh (Andhra Area) Land Revenue Assessments (Standardisation) Act, 1956_Section 2--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires, (i) "current rates of assessment" means- [(a) in the case of an estate notified under [the Andhra Pradesh (Andhra Area) Estates (Abolition and Conversion into Ryotwari) Act, 1948 (Act XXVI of 1948)] the assessment imposed at a ryotwari settlement effected under Section 22 of that Act, and till then the land revenue payable under Section 23 of that Act;]1 (b) in the case of an inam on which assessment is leviable under Section 3 of the Andhra Pradesh (Andhra Area) Inams (Assessment) Act, 1955 (Act XVII of 1955) the assessment so leviable under the said Section 3; and in the case of an inam in respect of which a ryotwari patta has been granted under [the Andhra Pradesh (Andhra Area) Inams (Abolition and Conversion into Ryotwari) Act, 1956 (Act XXXVII of 1956) the ryotwari assessment imposed under Section 12 of that Act]2 ; (c) in the case of every other land, the amount payable as assessment in accordance with the settlement or re settlement notification in force in the village: (ii) "dry land’ means land registered as dry in the Revenue Accounts; (iii) "Government" means the State Government; (iv) "wet land" means land registered as wet in the Revenue Accounts. Substituted by Act 6 of 1958 and amended by Act 9 of 1961 Amended by Act 9 of 1961
Andhra Pradesh (Andhra Area) Land Revenue Assessments (Standardisation) Act, 1956_Section 3--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh The Government shall be entitled to levy on all lands on which land revenue assessment is now payable standard rates of assessment as hereinafter provided with effect from the fasli year commencing on the 1st July, 1956.
Andhra Pradesh (Andhra Area) Land Revenue Assessments (Standardisation) Act, 1956_Section 4--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh The standard rates of assessment shall be- (a) in each of the tracts specified in Schedule A, the current rates of assessment together with an addition of two areas in the rupee of such assessment in the case of dry lands; and half anna in the rupee of such assessment in the case of wet; (b) in each of the tracts specified in Schedule B, the current rates of assessment together with an addition of one anna in the rupee of such assessment in the case of dry lands, and three pies in the rupee of such assessment in the case of wet lands: (c) in each of the tracts specified in Schedule C, the current rates of assessment without any addition.
Andhra Pradesh (Andhra Area) Land Revenue Assessments (Standardisation) Act, 1956_Section 5--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh The standard assessment payable under this Act in respect of any land shall be deemed to be public revenue due upon the said land; and the land, its products and the buildings (owned or occupied by the owner) standing upon the land shall be regarded as the security of such assessment, and the provisions of [the Andhra Pradesh Revenue Recovery Act, 1864 (Act II of 1864)] shall apply to the payment and recovery of the said assessment as they apply to the payment and recovery of the revenue due on the land.1 Amended by Act 9 of 1961
Andhra Pradesh (Andhra Area) Land Revenue Assessments (Standardisation) Act, 1956_Section 6--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh Notwithstanding anything contained in the foregoing provisions of this Act, the Government or any officer or authority subordinate to them shall continue to exercise all the powers which they had immediately before the commencement of this Act, in respect of matters relating to fixation, reduction, enhancement, cancellation or revision of assessments fixed under the settlement or re settlement notification in force in the area.
Andhra Pradesh (Andhra Area) Land Revenue Assessments (Standardisation) Act, 1956_Section 7--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh If any doubts or difficulties arise in giving effect to the provisions of this Act, the Government may make such orders, not inconsistent with the said provisions, as may appear to them to be necessary or expedient for the purpose of removing such doubts or difficulties.
Andhra Pradesh (Andhra Area) Land Revenue Assessments (Standardisation) Act, 1956_Section 8--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh The Government may, by notification published in [the Andhra Pradesh Gazette,] make rules to carry out the purposes of this Act. The rules so made shall be placed on the table of the Legislative Assembly as soon as possible after they are published and shall be subject to such modifications, whether by way of repeal or amendment, as the Assembly may make within fourteen days thereafter during the session in which they are so laid.1 Substituted by the AP AO 1957
Andhra Pradesh (Andhra Area) Land Revenue Assessments (Standardisation) Act, 1956_Section Sch.1--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh Schedule A (1) The Kadiri taluk of the Anantapur district. (2) The Madanapalli and Vayalpad taluks of the Chittoor district. (3) The Cuddapah district. (4) The Guntur district. (5) The Kurnool district excluding Adoni and Alur taluks. (6) The Nellore district. (7) The Srikakulam district excluding the Bobbili, Cheepurupalli, Palakonda, Parvathipuram, Pathapatnam and Salur taluks. Schedule B (1) The Chittoor district excluding the Madanapalli and Vayalpad taluks. (2) The Bobbili, Cheepurupalli, Palakonda, Parvathipuram, Pathapatnam and Salur taluks of the Srikakulam district. (3) The Visakhanatnam district Schedule C (1) The Anantapur district excluding the Kadiri taluk. (2) The East Godavari district. (3) The Krishna district. (4) The Adoni and Alur taluks of Kurnool distrct. (5) The West Godavari district. 
