Andhra Pradesh Municipal Laws (Amendment) Act, 2001_Section Preamble--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh An Act Further to Amend the Andhra Pradesh Municipalities Act, 1965 and the Andhra Pradesh Municipal Laws (Second Amendment) Act, 1994. Be it enacted by the Legislative Assembly of the State of Andhra Pradesh in the Fifty second year of the Republic of India as follows:-
Andhra Pradesh Municipal Laws (Amendment) Act, 2001_Section 1--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh (1) This Act IT may be called the Andhra Pradesh Municipal Laws (Amendment) Act, 20011 . (2) It shall be deemed to have come into force on and from the 27th September, 2000. Received the assent of the Governor on the 7th April, 2001 and the said assent is hereby first published on the 10th April, 2001 in the Andhra Pradesh Gazette.
Andhra Pradesh Municipal Laws (Amendment) Act, 2001_Section 2--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh In the Andhra Pradesh Municipalities Act, 1965 (hereinafter referred to as the principal Act), in section 62-A, in sub-section (1), - (i) for the words "which shall not exceed four and half years", the words "which shall not exceed five and half years", shall be substituted; (ii) in the proviso, for the words "beyond four and half years", the words "beyond five and half years", and for the words "in the aggregate exceed eight and half years", the words "in the aggregate exceed nine and half years", shall respectively be substituted.
Andhra Pradesh Municipal Laws (Amendment) Act, 2001_Section 3--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh Notwithstanding anything contained in the Principal Act, any Judgment, decree or order of a Court, or any other authority, every action taken or thing done by the Special officer in exercise of the powers conferred under section 62-A or the principal Act shall not be deemed to be invalid or ever to have become invalid by reason of the fact that such actions were taken or such things were done by such Special Officer, when the power in this behalf had not been entrusted to him under the provisions of the said principal Act, and accordingly, any action taken or things done by such special Officer, shall for all purposes be deemed to be and deemed to have always" been, taken or done in accordance with the provisions of the principal Act, as amended by this Act.
Andhra Pradesh Municipal Laws (Amendment) Act, 2001_Section 4--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh In the Andhra Pradesh Municipal Laws (Second Amendment) Act, 1994. in Section 5. for the words "not exceeding six and half years" the words "not exceeding seven and half years" shall be substituted.
Andhra Pradesh Municipal Laws (Amendment) Act, 2001_Section 5--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh The Andhra Pradesh Municipal Laws (Third Amendment Ordinance, 2000 is hereby repealed. (G. Bhavani Prasad), Secretary to Government, Legislative Affairs & Justice, Law Department. 
