Andhra Pradesh Urban Areas (Development)(Amendment) Act, 2003_Section Preamble--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh The following Act of the Andhra Pradesh Legislative Assembly received the assent of the Governor on the 22nd October, 2003, Published on the 24th October, 2003 in the Andhra Pradesh Gazette for General information. An Act further to amend the Andhra Pradesh Urban Areas (Development) Act, 1975. Be it enacted by the Legislative Assembly of the State of Andhra Pradesh in the Fifty-fourth year of the Republic of India as follows:
Andhra Pradesh Urban Areas (Development)(Amendment) Act, 2003_Section 1--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh (1) This Act may be called the Andhra Pradesh Urban Areas (Development) (Amendment) Act, 2003. (2) It shall be deemed to have come into force with effect from the 5th February, 1996.
Andhra Pradesh Urban Areas (Development)(Amendment) Act, 2003_Section 2--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh In the Andhra Pradesh Urban Areas (Development) Act, 1975 (Act 1 of 1975) in Section 28, in sub-section (2), for the first proviso, the following proviso shall be substituted, namely:- "Provided that such rates of development charges shall not exceed rupees one hundred and twenty five per square meter in the case of development of land and rupees forty per square meter in the case of development of building".
Andhra Pradesh Urban Areas (Development)(Amendment) Act, 2003_Section 3--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh Notwithstanding anything contained in any judgment, decree or order of any Court, Tribunal or other authority to the contrary, the notification issued in G.O.Ms.No. 51 M.A. & U.D. Department, dated the 5th February, 1996 under sub-section (1) of Section 58 of the Andhra Pradesh Urban Areas (Development) Act, 1975 amending the Urban Development Authority (Hyderabad) Rules, 1975 as it stood immediately before the commencement of the Andhra Pradesh Urban Areas (Development) (Amendment) Act, 2003 fixing and collecting of the development charges, shall be and shall be deemed always to have been, validly issued under the provisions of the principal Act as amended by the Andhra Pradesh Urban Areas (Development) (Amendment) Act, 2003 and accordingly:- (a) all acts, proceedings or things done or taken by the State Government or by any officer of the State Government or by any other authority in connection with the levy and collection of such development charges shall for all purposes be deemed to be, and to have always been done or taken in accordance with law; (b) no suit or other proceedings shall be instituted maintained or continued in any Court, Tribunal or before any authority for the refund of any such development charges; and (c) no Court shall enforce any decree or order directing the refund of any such development charges.
Andhra Pradesh Urban Areas (Development)(Amendment) Act, 2003_Section 4--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh The Andhra Pradesh Urban Areas (Development) (Amendment) Ordinance, 2003 is hereby repealed. 
