Andhra Pradesh Advocates Welfare Fund and the Andhra Pradesh Advocates Clerks Welfare Fund (Amendment) Act, 2001_Section Preamble--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh An Act further to amend the Andhra Pradesh Advocates Welfare Fund Act, 1987 and the Andhra Pradesh Advocates Clerks Welfare Fund Act, 1992. Be it enacted by the Legislative Assembly of the State of Andhra Pradesh in the Fifty-second Year of Republic of India as follows:-
Andhra Pradesh Advocates Welfare Fund and the Andhra Pradesh Advocates Clerks Welfare Fund (Amendment) Act, 2001_Section 1--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh (1) This Act may be called the Andhra Pradesh Advocates Welfare Fund and the Andhra Pradesh Advocates Clerks Welfare Fund (Amendment) Act, 20011 . (2) It shall be deemed to have come into force with effect from the 29th February, 2000. Received the assent of the Governor on the 22nd April, 2001.
Andhra Pradesh Advocates Welfare Fund and the Andhra Pradesh Advocates Clerks Welfare Fund (Amendment) Act, 2001_Section 2--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh In the Andhra Pradesh Advocates Welfare Fund Act, 1987 in section 12,- (1) In sub-section (1), for the word, "Government", the words, "Commissioner and Inspector General of Registration and Stamps, Andhra Pradesh, Hyderabad" shall be substituted. (2) In sub-section (4) for the words. "The custody of the stamps printed under this section shall be with the Government", the words, "The work relating to the printing, custody and distribution of the 'Nyayavadula Mariyu Vari Gumasthala Samkshema Nidhi Stamps' shall be with the Commissioner and Inspector General of Registration and Stamps, Andhra Pradesh, Hyderabad", shall be substituted.
Andhra Pradesh Advocates Welfare Fund and the Andhra Pradesh Advocates Clerks Welfare Fund (Amendment) Act, 2001_Section 3--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh In the Andhra Pradesh Advocates Clerks Welfare Fund Act, 1992, in section 12, - (1) In sub-section (1) for the word, "Government", the words, "Commissioner and Inspector General of Registration and Stamps, Andhra Pradesh, Hyderabad", shall be substituted. (2) In sub-section (4), for the words, "The custody of the stamps printed under this section shall be with the Government", the words, "The work relating to the printing, custody and distribution of the 'Nyayavadula Mariyu Vari Gumasthala Samkshema Nidhi Stamps' shall be with the Commissioner and Inspector General of Registration and Stamps Andhra Pradesh, Hyderabad", shall be substituted. (K.G. Shankar), Secretary to Government, Legislative Affairs & Justice, (F.A.C.), Law Department. 
