Andhra Pradesh Charitable and Hindu Religious Institutions and Endowments (Amendment) Act, 1997_Section Preamble--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh An Act further to amend the Andhra Pradesh Charitable and Hindu Religious Institutions and Endowments Act, 1987. Be it enacted by the Legislative Assembly of the State of Andhra Pradesh in the Forty-eighth Year of the Republic of India as follows:-
Andhra Pradesh Charitable and Hindu Religious Institutions and Endowments (Amendment) Act, 1997_Section 1--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh (1) This Act may be called the Andhra Pradesh Charitable and Hindu Religious Institutions and Endowments (Amendment) Act, 19971 . (2) It shall come into force on such date as the State Government may, by notification in the Andhra Pradesh Gazette, appoint. Received the assent of the Governor on 26th December, 1997.
Andhra Pradesh Charitable and Hindu Religious Institutions and Endowments (Amendment) Act, 1997_Section 2--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh In the Andhra Pradesh Charitable and Hindu Religious Institutions and Endowments Act, 1987 (hereinafter referred to as the principal Act), in section 29, in sub-section (6), for the words "and later recovered from the institution or endowment concerned in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Act, for the recovery of contribution from the institution or endowment", the words "and later recovered from the Endowments Administration Fund established under section 69 of this Act", shall be substituted.
Andhra Pradesh Charitable and Hindu Religious Institutions and Endowments (Amendment) Act, 1997_Section 3--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh In section 65 of the principal Act, in sub-section (1) for the words "not exceeding seven per centum" the words "of the actual expenditure incurred towards such services subject to a maximum of fifteen per centum" shall be substituted.
Andhra Pradesh Charitable and Hindu Religious Institutions and Endowments (Amendment) Act, 1997_Section 4--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh In section 69 of the principal Act, in sub-section (2), in clause (a), in sub-clause (iv) the expression "under sub-section (6) of section 29 and" shall be omitted. K. K. Nagabhushan Rao Secretary to Government, Legislative Affairs & Justice, I/C Law Department. 
