Andhra Pradesh College Service Commission (Amendment) Act, 1993_Section Preamble--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh An Act further to amend the Andhra Pradesh College Service Commission Act, 1985. Be it enacted by the Legislative Assembly of the State of Andhra Pradesh in the Forty-third Year of the Republic of India, as follows:-
Andhra Pradesh College Service Commission (Amendment) Act, 1993_Section 1--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh (1) This Act may be called the Andhra Pradesh College Service Commission (Amendment) Act, 19931 . (2) It shall be deemed to have come into force on the 25th November, 1992. Received the assent of the Governor on the 20th Jan, 1993
Andhra Pradesh College Service Commission (Amendment) Act, 1993_Section 2--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh In the Andhra Pradesh College Service Commission Act, 1985 (Act 13 of 1985) (hereinafter referred to as the principal Act), for Section 9, the following shall be substituted, namely:- "9. Directors/Commissioner to communicate to the Commission number of vacancies:- The Director/Commissioner of Collegiate Education or the Director of Intermediate Education or the Director of School Education, as the case may be shall communicate to the Commission the number of vacancies existing in the Colleges under their administrative control including the vacancies which are likely to occur during the unexpired portion of the academic year within one month of the commencement of the academic year."
Andhra Pradesh College Service Commission (Amendment) Act, 1993_Section 3--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh For Sections 11 and 12 of the principal Act, the following shall be substituted, namely :- "11. Duty of Commission to make recommendations:- It shall be the duty of the Commission to recommend to the concerned Director/ Commissioner, a list of candidates selected by it for appointments to fill the vacancies communicated to it under Section 9." 12. Communicated vacancies to be filled only on the recommendation of the Commission:- (1) Appointments to all the vacancies required to be communicated to the Commission under Section 9 shall, on or from such date as the Commission may notify in respect of vacancies existing in the colleges under the control of Director/ Commissioner concerned shall be made by him only on the recommendation of the Commission. (2) If in any year, the Commission is unable to make recommendations for appointments to all the vacancies communicated to it under Section 9 or if the Director/Commissioner concerned is unable to make appointments in any year on the basis of the recommendations made by the Commission, the vacancies shall be carried forward to the subsequent year.
Andhra Pradesh College Service Commission (Amendment) Act, 1993_Section 4--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh In Section 14 of the principal Act, for the words "any college" and "the college", the words "the concerned Director/Commissioner" shall be substituted.
Andhra Pradesh College Service Commission (Amendment) Act, 1993_Section 5--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh The Andhra Pradesh College Service Commission (Amendment) Ordinance, 1992 is hereby 11 of 1992 repealed. 
