Andhra Pradesh Entertainments Tax (Amendment) Act, 2008_Section Preamble--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh An Act further to Amend the Andhra Pradesh Entertainments Tax Act, 1939. Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Andhra Pradesh in the Fifty-ninth Year of the Republic of India as follows:
Andhra Pradesh Entertainments Tax (Amendment) Act, 2008_Section 1--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh (1) This Act may be called the Andhra Pradesh Entertainments Tax (Amendment) Act, 2008. (2) It extends to the whole of the State of Andhra Pradesh. (3) It shall come into force on such date as the State Government may, by notification, appoint.
Andhra Pradesh Entertainments Tax (Amendment) Act, 2008_Section 2--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh In the Andhra Pradesh Entertainments Tax Act, 1939 (hereinafter referred to as, the principal Act) in section 3, after sub-section (9), the following new sub-section shall be added namely:- "(10) words and expressions; the Commissioner, Additional Commissioner, Joint Commissioner, Deputy Commissioner, Commercial Tax Officer used but not defined in this Act and defined in the Andhra Pradesh Value Added Tax Act, 2005 shall have the same meanings respectively assigned for them under that Act.".
Andhra Pradesh Entertainments Tax (Amendment) Act, 2008_Section 3--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh After section 10 of the principal Act, the following new sections shall be inserted, namely:- "10A. Powers of Deputy Commissioner under Revenue Recovery Act:-(1) The Deputy Commissioner shall have the powers of a Collector under the Andhra Pradesh Revenue Recovery Act, 1864, for the purpose of recovery of any amount due under the Act. (2) Subject to the provisions of sub-section (3), all Deputy Commercial Tax Officers shall, for the purposes of recovery of any amount due under the Act, have the powers of the Mandal Revenue Officer under the Andhra Pradesh Rent and Revenue Sales Act, 1839 for the sale of property distrained for any amount due under the Act. (3) Notwithstanding anything contained in Andhra Pradesh Rent and Revenue Sales Act, 1839, the Deputy Commercial Tax Officer, in exercise of the powers conferred by sub-section (2) shall be subject to the control and Superintendence of the Deputy Commissioner. 10B. Recovery of tax and other dues:-(1) The Commissioner or any other authority prescribed may at any time or from time to time, by notice in writing (a copy of which shall be forwarded to the dealer at his last address known to such authority) require any person from whom money is due or may become due to the defaulter, or any person who holds or may subsequently hold money for, or on account of the defaulter, to pay such authority, either forthwith if the money has become due or is so held, within the time, specified in the notice but not before the money becomes due or is so held, so much of the money as is sufficient to pay the amount due by the defaulter in respect of arrears of tax, interest, penalty or the whole the money when it is equal to or less than that amount. (2) The authority prescribed may, at any time, or from time to time, amend or revoke any such notice or extend the time of making any payment in pursuance of the notice. (3) Any person making any payment in compliance with the notice under this section shall be deemed to have made the payment under the authority of the defaulter and the receipt of the authority prescribed shall constitute a good and sufficient discharge of the liability of such person to the extend of the amount referred to in the receipt. (4) Any person discharging any liability to the defaulter after receipt of the notice referred to in this section, shall be personally liable to the authority prescribed to the extent of the liability discharged or to the extent of the liability of the defaulter for the amount due under the Act, whichever is less. (5) Where any person to whom a notice under this section is sent proves to the satisfaction of the authority prescribed that the sum demanded or any part thereof is not due by him to the defaulter or that he does not hold any money for or on account of the dealer, then nothing contained in this section shall be deemed to require such person to pay the sum demanded or any part thereof, to the authority prescribed. (6) Where any person, to whom a notice under sub-section (1), is served fails to pay to the authority prescribed, the sum demanded or any part thereof as required in the said notice, such sum shall be recoverable from such person as if it were an arrears of land revenue due from him. (7) The provisions of this section shall be without prejudice to any action that may be taken for the recovery of the money due from the proprietor. 10C. Liability under the Act to be the first charge:-Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in any law for the time being in force, any amount of tax, including deferred tax, including tax deferred in general or under any scheme, by whatever name called by the Government, penalty, interest and any other sum payable by the proprietor or any other person under the Act, shall be the first charge on the property of such proprietor or any other person as the case may be". 
