Andhra Pradesh Payment of Salaries and Pension and Removal of Disqualifications (Second Amendment) Act, 1989_Section Preamble--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh An Act further to amend the Andhra Pradesh Payment of Salaries and - Pension and removal of Disqualifications Act, 1953. Be it enacted by the Legislative Assembly of the State of Andhra Pradesh in the Fortieth Year of the Republic of India, as follows:-
Andhra Pradesh Payment of Salaries and Pension and Removal of Disqualifications (Second Amendment) Act, 1989_Section 1--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh (1). This Act may be called the Andhra Pradesh Payment of Salaries and Pension and Removal of Disqualifications (Second Amendment) Act, 1989. 1 (2) It shall be deemed to have come into force on the 1st April, 1988. Received the assent of the governor on the 28th March, 1989
Andhra Pradesh Payment of Salaries and Pension and Removal of Disqualifications (Second Amendment) Act, 1989_Section 2--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh In the Andhra Pradesh Payment of, Salaries and Pension an d Removal of Disqualifications Act, 1953 (hereinafter referred to as the- principal Act), in section 3:- (i) in sub-section (2), after the words "other Ministers" the words ‘‘and the Deputy Ministers" shall be inserted; (ii) in Sub-section (3), after the words “or any other Minister" occurring in two places the words “or the Deputy Minister" shall be inserted.
Andhra Pradesh Payment of Salaries and Pension and Removal of Disqualifications (Second Amendment) Act, 1989_Section 3--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh In section 11 of the Principal Act,- (i) in sub-section (1-A), for the words "five thousand rupees per annum”, the words “seven thousand and five hundred rupees; or with cash of the same value per annum at his choice”, shall be substituted. (ii) for sub-section (1-B), the following sub-section shall be substituted, namely:- "(1-B) Every member referred to in sub-section (1), and his or her spouse shall, subject to such rules as may be made by the State Government in this, behalf, be entitled to travel either singly or, together with any other person in any stage carriage vehicles operated by the Andhra Pradesh State Road Transport Corporation on any route.”
Andhra Pradesh Payment of Salaries and Pension and Removal of Disqualifications (Second Amendment) Act, 1989_Section 4--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh In section 11-B of the principal Act,- (i) for sub-section (1)the following sub-section shall be substituted, namely;- “(1) Every member of the Legislative Assembly who does not hold any of the. offices referred to in sections 3, 4,5, 12-A and 12-B shall be entitled without payment of rent, electricity and water charges the use of furnished accommodation at Hyderabad, voided by the State Government; Provided that where such members say is not provided by the State Government with such accommodation, he shall be paid an accommodation allowance at the rate of one thousand rupees per mensum.” (ii) in sub-section (2), clause (b) and explanation thereunder shall be omitted. 
