Andhra Pradesh Sports Authorities (Amendment) Act, 2010_Section Preamble--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh An Act Further to amend the Andhra Pradesh Sports Authorities Act, 1988. Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Andhra Pradesh in the Sixty First Year of the Republic of India as follows:-
Andhra Pradesh Sports Authorities (Amendment) Act, 2010_Section 1--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh (1) This Act may be called the Andhra Pradesh Sports Authorities (Amendment) Act, 2010. (2) It shall be deemed to have been came into force with effect on and from 1st December, 2009.
Andhra Pradesh Sports Authorities (Amendment) Act, 2010_Section 2--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh In the Andhra Pradesh Sports Authorities Act, 1988 (hereinafter referred to as the principal Act), in Section 3,- (i) in sub-section (4) after clause (d) the following clause shall be added namely,- "(e) the Government may by notification, increase or decrease of Members both in Ex-officio as well as Members to be appointed by the Government, according to the need of the State Sports Authority". (ii) the proviso there under shall be omitted.
Andhra Pradesh Sports Authorities (Amendment) Act, 2010_Section 3--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh In the principal Act, in Section 7, in sub-section (2),- (i) after clause (g) the following clause shall be added, namely,- "(h) the Government may by notification, increase or decrease of Members both in Ex-officio as well as Members to be appointed by the Government, according to the need of District Sports Authority". (ii) the proviso there under shall be omitted.
Andhra Pradesh Sports Authorities (Amendment) Act, 2010_Section 4--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh In the principal Act, in Section 10, in sub-section (2),- (i) after clause (f) the following clause shall be added, namely,- "(g) the Government may by notification, increase or decrease of Members both in Ex-officio as well as Members to be appointed by the Government, according to the need of Mandal Sports Authority". (ii) the proviso there under shall be omitted. R. Rama chandra reddy, Secretary to Government, Legislative Affairs & Justice, Law Department. 
