Andhra Pradesh Urban Areas (Development)(Amendment) Act, 2001_Section Preamble--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh The following Act of the Andhra Pradesh Legislative Assembly received the assent of the Governor on the 7th April, 2001 and the said assent is hereby first published on the 10th April, 2001 in the Andhra Pradesh Gazette for general information. An Act further to amend the Andhra Pradesh Urban Areas (Development) Act, 1975. Be it enacted by the Legislative Assembly of the State of Andhra Pradesh in the Fifty-second Year of the Republic of India, as follows:-
Andhra Pradesh Urban Areas (Development)(Amendment) Act, 2001_Section 1--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh (1) This Act may be called the Andhra Pradesh Urban Areas (Development) (Amendment) Act, 2001.1 (2) It extends to the whole of the State of Andhra Pradesh. (3) It shall be deemed to have come into force with effect from the 2nd November, 2000. Received the assent of the Governor on the 7-4-2001, Published on the 10-4-2001 in the Andhra Pradesh Gazette. Part IV-B. Extraordinary
Andhra Pradesh Urban Areas (Development)(Amendment) Act, 2001_Section 2--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh In the Andhra Pradesh Urban Areas (Development) Act, 1975 (A.P. Act 1 of 1975), (hereinafter referred to as the principal Act) in Section 2,- (i) for clause (b), the following clause shall be substituted, namely:- "(b) "authority" means an Urban Development Authority constituted under sub-section (1) of Section 3 or a Special Area Development Authority constituted under sub-section (1) of Section 3-A for a development area under this Act,"; (ii) for clause (m), the following clause shall be substituted, namely:- "(m) ‘regulation’ means a regulation made under this Act by an Urban Development Authority constituted under sub-section (1) of Section 3 or by a Special Area Development Authority constituted under sub-section (1) of Section 3-A for the concerned development area;".
Andhra Pradesh Urban Areas (Development)(Amendment) Act, 2001_Section 3--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh After Section 3 of the principal Act, the following section shall be inserted, namely:- "Constitution of a Special Area Development Authority-(1) The Government may constitute a Special Area Development Authority for any area in the State of Andhra Pradesh as a special case whether such an area is classified as an urban area or otherwise, in the interest of specific development objectives that may be conducive to the overall planned development of the State. (2) Save as otherwise specified under this Act, the area comprised Within the jurisdiction of a Special Area Development Authority shall be deemed to be a Development Area notified under Section 13 of this Act. (3) The Government may, by, notification constitute a Special Area Development Authority for any part of a Development Area for which an Urban Development Authority was already constituted provided that the area so comprised within the jurisdiction of the Special Area Development Authority shall be deemed to have been excluded from the jurisdiction of the said Urban Development Authority under Section 13(2) of this Act. (4) Notwithstanding anything contained in this Act, or in any law for the time being in force, where any corporation or company is formed by the Government for the development of any particular area, the Government may, by, notification declare such company or corporation to be also a Special Area Development Authority and the said area as a Development Area under this Act.".
Andhra Pradesh Urban Areas (Development)(Amendment) Act, 2001_Section 4--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh The Andhra Pradesh Urban Areas (Development) (Amendment) Ordinance, 2000 is hereby repealed. 
