Dr. Y.S.R. Horticultural University (Amendment) Act, 2017_Section Preamble--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh An Act further to amend Dr. Y.S.R. Horticultural Univerisity Act, 2007. Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Andhra Pradesh in the Sixty-eighth Year of the Republic of India as follows:
Dr. Y.S.R. Horticultural University (Amendment) Act, 2017_Section 1--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh (1) This Act may be called Dr. Y.S.R. Horticultural University (Amendment) Act, 2017 (2) It shall be deemed to have come into force with effect from the 11th August, 2016.
Dr. Y.S.R. Horticultural University (Amendment) Act, 2017_Section 2--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh In Dr. Y.S.R. Horticultural University Act, 2007, (herein after referred to as the substitution of principal Act), for the long title, the following shall be substituted, namely,- "An Act to establish and incorporate a university and affiliating university for the development of Horticultural Sciences in the State of Andhra Pradesh and matters connected therewith or incidental thereto.".
Dr. Y.S.R. Horticultural University (Amendment) Act, 2017_Section 3--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh In section 2 of the principal Act.- (1) after clause (2), the following clause shall be inserted, namely:- "(2a) 'affiliated college/educational institution; means a college/educational institution affiliated to the university in accordance with the Regulations"; (2) in clause (7), after the words "the University", the words "or affiliated to, or recognized by the University", shall be inserted; (3) after clause (20), the following clause shall be inserted, namely,- "(20a) 'institution' means an institution offering academic programmes or research in Horticultural Sciences, or any other courses as may be prescribed by the authorities as defined in the Act and includes a Polytechnic"; (4) after clause (21), the following clause shall be inserted, namely,- "(21a) 'polytechnic' means a polytechnic offering courses under Horticultural Sciences, or any other courses as may be prescribed by the authorities, as defined in the Act"; (5) after clause (22), the following clause shall be inserted namely,- "(22a) 'recognized college or recognized institution' means a college or institution as the case may be recognized by the University under the conditions prescribed.".
Dr. Y.S.R. Horticultural University (Amendment) Act, 2017_Section 4--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh In section 3 of the Principal Act, after sub-section (2), the following sub-section shall be inserted, namely:- "(2a) the University shall be a teaching, research, extension and affiliating University.".
Dr. Y.S.R. Horticultural University (Amendment) Act, 2017_Section 5--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh In section 5 of the principal Act in sub-section (1), after the words "learning and Scholarship", the words "and to streamline the Horticultural Education affiliate, recognize the College imparting Horticultural Sciences or any other courses as may be prescribed by the authorities," shall be added at the end
Dr. Y.S.R. Horticultural University (Amendment) Act, 2017_Section 6--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh In section 7 of the principal Act,- (1) after sub-section (1), the following sub-section shall be inserted, namely:- "(1a) to affiliate or recognize Colleges of Horticultural, Science or Polytechnics and to withdraw such affiliation or recognition in the manner as may be prescribed". (2) after sub-section (4), the following sub-section shall be inserted, namely:- "(4a) to institute courses of study and to hold examinations for, and to confer diplomas to the Private Polytechnics in Horticultural, or any other courses as may be prescribed by the authorities, affiliated by the University; (4b) to institute courses of study and to hold examination for, and to confer Post Graduate/Under Graduate degree to the Private Colleges in Horticultural, or any courses as may be prescribed by the authorities, affiliated by the University.".
Dr. Y.S.R. Horticultural University (Amendment) Act, 2017_Section 7--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh In section 8 of the principal Act, in sub-section (1), after the word "maintained", the words "or affiliated or recognised" shall be inserted.
Dr. Y.S.R. Horticultural University (Amendment) Act, 2017_Section 8--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh In section 11 of the principal Act, in sub-section (2), after clause (xiii), the following clause shall be added, namely,- "(xiv) to affiliate or recognise colleges/educational institutions of Horticultural, or any other courses as may be prescribed by the authorities, including conditional affiliation or recognition of the colleges or educational institutions and to withdraw such affiliation or recognition on the recommendation of the Academic Council.".
Dr. Y.S.R. Horticultural University (Amendment) Act, 2017_Section 9--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh In section 13 of the principal Act, in sub-section (3), after clause (ix), the following clause shall be added, namely,- "(x) for the grant of affiliation or recognition or withdrawal of such affiliation or recognition of colleges/education institutions.".
Dr. Y.S.R. Horticultural University (Amendment) Act, 2017_Section 10--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh In section 56 of the principal Act, in sub-section (5), after clause (xiv), the following clause shall be added, namely,- "(xv) affiliation or recognition including conditional affiliation or recognition of colleges and polytechnics and withdrawal of such affiliation and for all other matters necessary for carrying out all or any of the purposes of the Act".
Dr. Y.S.R. Horticultural University (Amendment) Act, 2017_Section 11--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh Dr. Y.S.R. Horticultural University (Second Amendment) Ordinance, 2016 is hereby repealed. (M. Srihari Babu) Secretary to Government (I/c), Law Department. 
