Hyderabad Municipal Corporations (Amendment) Act, 2007_Section Preamble--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh An Act Further to Amend the Hyderabad Municipal Corporations Act, 1955. Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Andhra Pradesh in the Fifty-eighth Year of the Republic of India as follows:-
Hyderabad Municipal Corporations (Amendment) Act, 2007_Section 1--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh (1) This Act may be called the Hyderabad Municipal Corporations (Amendment) Act, 2007. (2) It shall be deemed to have come into force on the 4th May, 2007.
Hyderabad Municipal Corporations (Amendment) Act, 2007_Section 2--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh Amendment of Act II of 1956:- In the Hyderabad Municipal Corporations Act, 1955. (1) in Section 105,-(i) for the words "Additional and Deputy Commissioner" the words "Special Commissioner, Additional Commissioner,Zonal Commissioner, Joint Commissioner, Deputy Commissioner and Assistant Commissioner" shall be substituted; (ii) in the marginal heading for the words "Additional and Deputy Commissioner" the words "Special Commissioner, Additional Commissioner, Zonal Commissioner, Joint Commissioner, Deputy Commissioner and Assistant Commissioner" shall be substituted; (2) in Section 106, in sub-sections (1) and (2).-(i) for the words "Additional Commissioner and Deputy Commissioner" wherever they occur, the words "Special Commissioner, Additional Commissioner Zonal Commissioner, Joint Commissioner, Deputy Commissioner and Assistant Commissioner" shall be substituted; (ii) in the marginal heading for the words "Additional Commissioner, and Deputy Commissioner" the words "Special Commissioner, Additional Commissioner, Zonal Commissioner, Joint Commissioner, Deputy Commissioner and Assistant Commissioner" shall be substituted; (3) in the heading above Section 107, for the words "Additional Commissioner and Deputy Commissioner" the words "Special Commissioner, Additional Commissioner, Zonal Commissioner,Joint Commissioner, Deputy Commissioner and Assistant Commissioner" shall be substituted; (4) in Section 107,-(i) for the words "Additional Commissioner and Deputy Commissioner" wherever they occur, the words "Special Commissioner, Additional Commissioner, Zonal Commissioner, Joint Commissioner, Deputy Commissioner and Assistant Commissioner" shall be substituted; (ii) in the marginal heading for the words "Additional Commissioner and Deputy Commissioner", the words "Special Commissioner, Additional Commissioner, Zonal Commissioner, Joint Commissioner, Deputy Commissioner and Assistant Commissioner" shall be substituted; (5) in the heading above Section 108, for the words "Additional Commissioner and Deputy Commissioner" the words "Special Commissioner, Additional Commissioner, Zonal Commissioner, Joint Commissioner, Deputy Commissioner and Assistant Commissioner" shall be substituted; (6) in Section 108,-(i) for the words "Additional Commissioner and Deputy Commissioner", the words "Special Commissioner, Additional Commissioner, Zonal Commissioner, Joint Commissioner, Deputy Commissioner and Assistant Commissioner" shall be ubstituted; (ii) in the marginal heading for the words "Additional Commissioner and Deputy Commissioner", the words "Special Commissioner, Additional Commissioner, Zonal Commissioner, Joint Commissioner, Deputy Commissioner and Assistant Commissioner" shall be substituted; (7) in Section 109, for the words "Additional Commissioner and Deputy Commissioner" wherever they occur, the words "Special Commissioner, Additional Commissioner, Zonal Commissioner, Joint Commissioner, Deputy Commissioner and Assistant Commissioner" shall be substituted; (8) in Section 110,-(i) for the words "Additional Commissioner and Deputy Commissioner", wherever they occur, the words "Special Commissioner, Additional Commissioner, Zonal Commissioner, Joint Commissioner, Deputy Commissioner and Assistant Commissioner" shall be substituted; (ii) in the marginal heading for the words "Additional Commissioner and Deputy Commissioner", the words "Special Commissioner, Additional Commissioner, Zonal Commissioner, Joint Commissioner, Deputy Commissioner and Assistant Commissioner" shall be substituted; (9) in the heading above Section 111, for the words "Additional Commissioner and Deputy Commissioner" the words "Special Commissioner, Additional Commissioner, Zonal Commissioner, Joint Commissioner, Deputy Commissioner and Assistant Commissioner" shall be substituted; (10) in Section 111,-(i) for the words "Additional Commissioner and Deputy Commissioner", wherever they occur, the words "Special Commissioner, Additional Commissioner, Zonal Commissioner, Joint Commissioner, Deputy Commissioner and Assistant Commissioner" shall be substituted; (ii) in the marginal heading for the words "Additional Commissioner, and Deputy Commissioner", the words "Special Commissioner, Additional Commissioner, Zonal Commissioner, Joint Commissioner, Deputy Commissioner and Assistant Commissioner" shall be substituted; (11) for "Schedule-C", the following "Schedule" shall be substituted, namely:- "SCHEDULE-C [See Section 130] Officers and servants of the Corporation belonging to Local Government Services: 1. Commissioner 2. Special Commissioner 3. Additional Commissioners 4. Zonal Commissioners 5. Joint Commissioners 6. Deputy Commissioners 7. Assistant Commissioners 8. Chief Engineer 9. Superintending Engineers 10. Executive Engineers 11. Deputy Executive Engineer 12. Chief Medical Officer of Health 13. Medical Officer of Health 14. Civil Assistant Surgeons 15. Additional District Medical Officer of Health 16. Chief Entomologist 17. Senior Entomologist 18. District Extension and Mass Media Officer 19. Chief City Planner 20. Additional City Planner 21. Land Scape Architect 22. Assistant City Planners 23. Examiner of Accounts 24. Assistant Examiner of Accounts 25. Accounts Officer-cum-Financial Advisor 26. Divisional Accounts Officer 27. Public Relation Officer 28. Estate Officer 29. Chief Valuation Officer 30. Valuation Officers 31. Assistant Directors (Veterinary) 32. Chief Horticulturist 33. Senior Horticulturist 34. Junior Horticulturist 35. Chief Transport Officer 36. Land Acquisition Officer 37. Forest Officer 38. Foreman 39. Metropolitan Magistrate.".
Hyderabad Municipal Corporations (Amendment) Act, 2007_Section 3--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh The Hyderabad Municipal Corporations (Amendment) Ordinance, 2007 is hereby repealed. 
