Hyderabad Metropolitan Water Supply and Sewerage (Amendment) Act, 1997_Section Preamble--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh An Act to Amend the Hyderabad Metropolitan Water Supply and Sewerage Act, 1989. Be it enacted by the Legislative Assembly of the State of Andhra Pradesh in the Forty-eighth Year of the Republic of India, as follows:-
Hyderabad Metropolitan Water Supply and Sewerage (Amendment) Act, 1997_Section 1--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh This Act may be called the Hyderabad Metropolitan Water Supply and Sewerage (Amendment) Act, 1997.1 (2) It shall come into force on such date as the Government may, by notification appoint. Received the assent of the Governor on 25th March, 1997
Hyderabad Metropolitan Water Supply and Sewerage (Amendment) Act, 1997_Section 2--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh In the Hyderabad Metropolitan Water Supply and Sewerage Act, 1989 (hereinafter referred to as the principal Act) for section 14, the following shall be substituted, namely:- "14(1) Depreciation Reserve:- The Board shall every year provide out of its revenues, depreciation in respect of each depreciable asset specified in column(1) of the First Schedule, so that the depreciation provided in respect of such asset over the period specified in column (2) accumulates to ninety percent of the original cost of acquisition of the asset, either,- (a) in equal annual installments in respect of each such asset; or (b) at a fixed annual percentage of the original cost of acquisition during the year of acquisition and of the depreciated value of the asset as at the end of the previous financial years during each subsequent year. (2) If any asset is sold, discarded, demolished or destroyed during the year;- (a) the excess, if, any, of the written down value of such asset over its sale proceeds or as the case may be its scrap value shall be written off; (b) the excess, if any, of the lower of the sale proceeds and the cost of acquisition over the Written down value of the asset shall be accounted for as income during such financial year; and (c) the excess, if any, of the sale proceeds over the cost of acquisition of the asset shall be credited to the capital reserve of the Board. In the financial year in which the asset is sold, discarded, demolished or destroyed.".
Hyderabad Metropolitan Water Supply and Sewerage (Amendment) Act, 1997_Section 3--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh In the First Schedule to the principal Act for item 'C' and the corresponding entries relating thereof the following shall be substituted namely:-  Description of Assets Number of years of period. "C. Assets acquired new (a) (i) Buildings and civil construction of permanent nature- Fifty (ii) Temporary- erections such as wooden structures. Five (iii) Bridges, Barrages and Reservoirs Fifty (b) (i) Roads other than Katcha Roads. Fifty (ii) Katcha Roads Five (c) (i) Water and Sewerage Treatment Plants. Thirty five (ii) Pumping Plants. Fifteen (iii) Pipe Lines (mains and distribution lines) Fifty (iv) Power Stations and equipment Twenty five (v) Boring sets Fifteen (d) Vehicles Seven (e) (i) Office furniture and fittings Fifteen (ii) Office equipment Seven (f) Other. Assets Fifteen" (G. Bhavani Prasad), Secretary to Government, Legislative Affairs and Justice, Law Department. 
