Indian Stamp (Andhra Pradesh Amendment) Act, 2002_Section Preamble--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh An act further to amend the Indian Stamp Act, 1899 in its application to the State of Andhra Pradesh. Be it enacted by the Legislative Assembly of the State of Andhra Pradesh in the Fifty-second year of the Republic of India as follows:-
Indian Stamp (Andhra Pradesh Amendment) Act, 2002_Section 1--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh (1) This Act may be called the Indian Stamp (Andhra Pradesh Amendment) Act, 2002.1 (2) It extends to the whole of the Stale of Andhra Pradesh. (3) It shall come into force on such dale as the State Government may, by notification in (he Andhra Pradesh Gazette, appoint. Received the assent of the President on the 20th July, 2002
Indian Stamp (Andhra Pradesh Amendment) Act, 2002_Section 2--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh In the Indian Stamp Act, 1899, (herein after referred to as the principal Act) as in force in the State of Andhra Pradesh, in section41-A,- (a) in sub-section (1), in the proviso, for the words "the proper duty or the amount required to make up the same should not be collected from him", the words "the amount required to make up the deficit stamp duty should not be collected from him along with a penalty of three times of deficit stamp duty", shall be substituted. (b) in sub-section (2), (i) for the words "the amount of duty", the words" the amount of duty and the penalty", shall be substituted. (ii) for the word "duty" occurring at the end, the word "amount" shall be substituted. (c) in sub-section (4) for the word "duty", the word "amount" shall be substituted.
Indian Stamp (Andhra Pradesh Amendment) Act, 2002_Section 3--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh In section 70 of the principal Act for sub-section (2), the following sub-section shall be substituted, namely,- (2) The Chief Controlling Revenue Authority, or any officer generally or specially authorized by it in this behalf, may slay any such prosecution or compound any such offence by levying a compounding fee which shall include the deficit stamp duty, if any and a penalty of three times of the deficit stamp duty. (K.G. Shankar), Secretary to Government, Legislative Affairs & Justice (FAC), Law Department. 
