Registration (Andhra Pradesh Second Amendment) Act, 1999_Section Preamble--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh An Act further to amend the Registration Act, 1908 in its application to the state of Andhra Pradesh. Be it enacted by the Legislative Assembly of the State of Andhra Pradesh in the Fiftieth year of the Republic of India as follows:-
Registration (Andhra Pradesh Second Amendment) Act, 1999_Section 1--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh (1) This Act may be called the Registration (Andhra Pradesh Second Amendment) Act, 1999.1 (2) It extends to the whole of the State of Andhra Pradesh. (3) It shall be deemed to have come into force with effect from the 31st December, 1998. Received the assent of the Governor on 15th April, 1999
Registration (Andhra Pradesh Second Amendment) Act, 1999_Section 2--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh In the Registration Act, 1908, a in force, in the State of Andhra Pradesh (hereinafter referred to as the Principal Act), in sub-section (2) of section 2 after the words "includes a portion on book", the words "and the information storage devices like floppy disk, hard disk, compact-disk" shall be added.
Registration (Andhra Pradesh Second Amendment) Act, 1999_Section 3--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh In section 16 of the principal Act for sub-section (1), the following shall be substituted, namely:- "The State Government shall provide for the office of every Registering Officer the books and also the information processing and storage devices like computer and scanners along with the software prescribed by the inspector General, from time to time necessary for purpose of this Act."
Registration (Andhra Pradesh Second Amendment) Act, 1999_Section 4--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh In section 51 of the principal Act, in sub-section (1), in. the opening portion, for the words "The following books" the words "The following books and the information storage devices" as specified in sub-section (1) of the section 16" shall be substituted.
Registration (Andhra Pradesh Second Amendment) Act, 1999_Section 5--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh In section 61 of the principal Act, after sub-section (1), the following proviso shall be added namely:- "Provided that the copying of the items referred to above may be done using electronic devices like scanner."
Registration (Andhra Pradesh Second Amendment) Act, 1999_Section 6--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh After part-XI of the principal Act the following Part-XI-A shall be inserted, namely:- "Part - XIA Registration of documents by means of electronic devices 70A. Application of this part.:-This part shall apply to the areas only in- respect of which a notification is issued by the Government of Andhra Pradesh under Section 70-B. 70B. Documents scanned by electronic devices in areas notified by the Government.:-(1) The Government of Andhra Pradesh may by notification, in the official Gazette, direct that in any office as may be specified therein, the process of registration of any category or categories of documents may be completed and copying done with the help of the electronic devices like computers, scanners and the Compact disks and copies preserved on such devices and retrieved when required. (2) notwithstanding anything contained in this Act or any other Law for the time being in force, a copy of any document registered and scanned using the electronic devices and certified or attested by the Registering Officer in-charge of the office shall also be received in evidence of any transaction as is described in the said document. 70C. Saving:- Nothing in this part shall apply,- (i) to any document which in the opinion of Registering Officer is not in a condition fit to be processed by means of electronic devices; (ii) in the case of unforeseen eventuality like break down of the computerized system of registration: Provided that the Registering Officer shall record the reasons in writing therefore: Provided further that the Registering Officer shall ensure that the data and images of the documents registered during the period of non-application of this part, due to a breakdown of the computerized system, are duly incorporated into the computer system, after the same is restored, in the manner prescribed by the Inspector General of Registration."
Registration (Andhra Pradesh Second Amendment) Act, 1999_Section 7--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh In section 89 of the principal Act, after the words "shall file the copy in' his Book No. 1" wherever they occur, the words "or get scanned" shall be added.
Registration (Andhra Pradesh Second Amendment) Act, 1999_Section 8--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh The Registration (Andhra Pradesh Amendment) Ordinance, 1998 is hereby repealed. (G. Bhavani Prasad), Secretary to Government, Legislative Affairs & Justice, Law Department. 
