Societies Registration (Andhra Pradesh) (Andhra Area) Amendment Act, 1954_Section Preamble--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh An Act further to amend the Societies Registration Act, 1860, in its application to the 1 [Andhra Area of the State of Andhra Pradesh]. 2 [Be it enacted in the Fifth Year of the Republic of India as follows]:- Substituted for the words "State of Andhra" by A.P. Act IX of 1961. Substituted for the original enacting formula by Sec. 6 of Act VI of 1956.
Societies Registration (Andhra Pradesh) (Andhra Area) Amendment Act, 1954_Section 1--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh (1) This Act may be called 1 [the Societies Registration (Andhra Pradesh) (Andhra Area) Amendment Act, 1954]. (2) It extends to the whole of the 2 [Andhra Area of the State of Andhra Pradesh]. (3) It shall be deemed to have come into force on the 1st day of October, 1954.3 Substituted for the original short title by A.P. Act IX of 1961. Substituted for the words "State of Andhra" by A.P. Act IX of 1961. This Act was enacted by the President in exercise of the powers conferred by Section 3 of the Andhra State Legislature (Delegation of Powers) Act, 1954 (Central Act 45 of 1954), and was reenacted permanently with specified modifications by Section 4 of, and the Third Schedule to, Act VI of 1956.
Societies Registration (Andhra Pradesh) (Andhra Area) Amendment Act, 1954_Section 2--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh In the Societies Registration Act, 1860 (hereinafter referred to as the principal Act),- (i) in Section 1, for the words "the Registrar of Joint Stock Companies" the words and brackets "the Inspector-General of Registration (hereinafter referred to as the Inspector-General]" shall be substituted. (ii) to the same section, the following Explanation shall be added, namely:- Explanation:- ‘Inspector-General of Registration’ means the Inspector-General of Registration appointed by the State Government under Section 3 of the Indian Registration Act, 1908 [Act 16 of 1908], and includes any officer subordinate to the Inspector-General, not below the rank of 1 [District Registrar or Sub-Registrar holding charge of the Office of the District Registrar] to whom the State Government may delegate the functions of the Inspector-General under this Act." Substituted for the words "District Registrar" by the Third Schedule to Act VI of 1956.
Societies Registration (Andhra Pradesh) (Andhra Area) Amendment Act, 1954_Section 3--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh In the principal Act, for the words "the Registrar" in Sections 3 and 19, and for the words "the Registrar of Joint-stock Companies" in Sections 4 and 18, wherever they occur, the words "the Inspector-General" shall be substituted.
Societies Registration (Andhra Pradesh) (Andhra Area) Amendment Act, 1954_Section 4--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh Any document filed with, or certificate issued by the Registrar of Joint Stock Companies, 1 [the Assistant Registrar of Joint-stock Companies or the Additional Assistant Registrar of Joint Stock Companies] under the principal Act before the commencement of this Act shall, after such commencement, be as effectual for all purposes as if it had been filed with, or issued by, the Inspector-General of Registration under the principal Act as amended by this Act. Inserted by Act IV of 1956. 
