University of Health Sciences (Amendment) Act, 1998_Section Preamble--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh An act Further to Amend the University of Health Sciences Act, 1986. Be it enacted by the Legislative Assembly of the State of Andhra Pradesh in the Forty-eighth Year of the Republic of India, as follows:-
University of Health Sciences (Amendment) Act, 1998_Section 1--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh (1) This Act may be called the University of Health Sciences (Amendment) Act, 1998.1 (2) It shall come into force on such date as the Government may, by notification, appoint. Received the assent of the Governor on the 5th January, 1988
University of Health Sciences (Amendment) Act, 1998_Section 2--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh In the University of Health Sciences Act, 1986 (hereinafter referred to as the principal Act), in sub-section (1) of section 1, for the expression "The University of Health Sciences Act, 1986", the expression "N.T.R. University of Health Sciences Act; 1986" shall be substituted.
University of Health Sciences (Amendment) Act, 1998_Section 3--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh In section 2 of the principal Act,- (a) for Clause (a), the following shall be substituted namely : - "(a) 'Academic Senate' means the "Academic Senate of the University"; (b) in clause (w), for the words "the University of Health Sciences" the words "N.T.R. University of Health Sciences" shall be substituted.
University of Health Sciences (Amendment) Act, 1998_Section 4--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh In sub-section (1) of section 3 of the principal Act, for the. words "the University of Health Sciences" and "Academic Council", the words "N.T. R. University of Health Sciences" and "Academic Senate" shall respectively be substituted;
University of Health Sciences (Amendment) Act, 1998_Section 5--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh In section 12 of the principal Act, in sub-section (1), for the words "from out of a panel of names in the alphabetical order", the words "from out of a panel of names of distinguished educationalists in the field of medicine in the alphabetical order" shall be substituted.
University of Health Sciences (Amendment) Act, 1998_Section 6--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh In section 18 of the principal Act, for item (ii), the following shall be substituted namely:- "(ii) Academic Senate"
University of Health Sciences (Amendment) Act, 1998_Section 7--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh In section 20 of the principal Act, - (a) in sub-section (1), for the words "Academic Council" the words "Academic Senate" shall be substituted; (b) in sub-section (2), for the words "Academic Council" the words "Academic Senate" shall be substituted; (c) in the marginal heading, for the words "Academic Council" the words "Academic Senate" shall be substituted.
University of Health Sciences (Amendment) Act, 1998_Section 8--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh For section 24 of the principal Act, along with marginal heading, the following new section shall be substituted, namely:- 24. "Term of office of members of the Executive Council, the Academic Senate and the Planning Board - Save as otherwise provided, the members of the Executive Council, the Academic Senate and the Planning Board shall be reconstituted at or about the same time every three years and the members of these authorities shall except in the case of ex-officio members hold office as members thereof upto the date of next reconstitution.".
University of Health Sciences (Amendment) Act, 1998_Section 9--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh In the Second Schedule to the principal Act:- (a) the statute 4, in clause (1),-under the heading "Class II - other members"- (i) for item (vii), the following shall be substituted, namely:- "(vii) three eminent educationalists in' the field of medicine representing the interests of Health Sciences in the State to be nominated by the Government"; (ii) after item (viii), the following shall be added, namely:- "(ix) three professors from the faculties of the affiliated colleges of the University to be nominated by the Government". (b) for statute 7 and the heading, the following shall be substituted; namely:- "The Academic Senate 7. The Academic Senate shall consist of the following persons, namely:- (1) the Vice-Chancellor; (2) the Rector; (3) all members of the Executive Council; (4) all principals of affiliated colleges; (5) twenty professors from affiliated colleges other than Principals nominated by the Vice-chancellor; (6) three professors from Indian System of Medicine one each from Ayurveda, Unani and Homeopathy system of Medicine nominated by the Government; (7) four professors having proficiency in Modern Medical Sciences nominated by the Government; (8) The Director, Institute of Genetics; (9) The Director, Nizam's Institute of Medical Sciences, Hyderabad; (10) The Director, Sri Venkateswara Institute of Medical-Sciences, Tirupathi; (11) The Director, National institute of Nutrition; (12) the Deputy Director, incharge of Extension Education; National Institute of Nutrition, Hyderabad; (13) three Professors of the affiliated colleges other than the members specified in item 5 belonging to Scheduled Castes/Scheduled Tribes nominated by the Vice-Chancellor". (c) in statute 9, in clause (2), to item (ii), the following shall be added, at the end, namely:- "and one shall be a nominee of the Medical Council of India".
University of Health Sciences (Amendment) Act, 1998_Section 10--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh Throughout the principal Act, for the words "Academic Council" wherever they occur, the words "Academic Senate" shall be substituted.
University of Health Sciences (Amendment) Act, 1998_Section 11--> State(s): Andhra Pradesh On the commencement of the University of Health Sciences (Amendment) Act, 1997,- (a) the members of the Academic Council constituted and functioning before the commencement of the University of Health Sciences (Amendment) Act, 1997 (hereinafter referred to as the said Act), shall continue to be such members and function only until the Academic Senate is re-constituted in accordance with the provisions of the principal Act as amended by the said Act; (b) Upon the reconstitution of the Academic Senate, in accordance with the provisions of the said Act, the members or the Academic Council holding office as such members immediately before such reconstitution shall cease to hold office as such members. (G. Bhavani Prasad), Secretary to Government, Legislative Affairs & Justice, Law Department. 
