Post-Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research, Chandigarh (Amendment) Act, 2008_Section Preamble--> State(s): Chandigarh An Act further to amend the Post-Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research, Chandigarh, Act, 1966. Be it enacted by Parliament in the Fifty-ninth Year of the Republic of India as follows:-
Post-Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research, Chandigarh (Amendment) Act, 2008_Section 1--> State(s): Chandigarh (1) This Act may be called the Post-Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research, Chandigarh (Amendment) Act, 2008. (2) It shall come into force on such date as the Central Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, appoint.
Post-Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research, Chandigarh (Amendment) Act, 2008_Section 2--> State(s): Chandigarh In the Post-Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research, Chandigarh, Act, 1966 (hereinafter referred to as the principal Act), for section 23, the following section shall be substituted, namely:- "23. Grant of medical, dental or nursing degrees, diplomas, etc., by the Institute:-Notwithstanding anything contained in any other law for the time being in force, the Institute shall have power to grant medical, dental or nursing degrees, diplomas and other academic distinctions and titles under this Act.".
Post-Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research, Chandigarh (Amendment) Act, 2008_Section 3--> State(s): Chandigarh For section 24 of the principal Act, the following section shall be substituted, namely:- "24. Recognition of medical, dental and nursing qualifications granted by the Institute:-Notwithstanding anything contained in the Indian Medical Council Act, 1956 , the Dentists Act, 1948 and the Indian Nursing Council Act, 1947 , the medical dental or nursing degrees or diplomas, as the case may be, granted by the Institute under this Act shall be recognised - (a) medical qualifications for the purpose of the Indian Medical Council Act, 1956 and shall be deemed to be included in the First Schedule to that Act; (b) dental qualifications for the purpose of the Dentists Act, 1948 and shall be deemed to be included in the Schedule to that Act; and (c) nursing qualifications for the purpose of the Indian Nursing Council Act, 1947 and shall be deemed to be included in the Schedule to that Act.". T.K.VISWANATHAN, Secy. to the Govt. of India. 
